Date: Thu, 17 Jul 2008 17:02:21 +0200
From: "Michal Seliga (Selmi)" <hidden>
Subject: Re: Treo680MessagesDBformat

i will write replies into your text.... and i cutted away parts not 
neccesary

David Cantrell wrote:
> Could you let me know the offset of each record, and whether there are
> any other records in between?  I expect that I'll need that so I can
> relate the three records to each other.

  if you look to name of each record, then first number is index in pdb, 
second is record flags (category), rest is id
 so i don't have offsets in pdb itself, but from what i saw there are 
never any records between

but mms can have more attachments, for example picture and sound, so 
maybe there can be more then 3 records...
logic says that they should have something in common, the most simple 
solution for programmer would be to have in
first messagesome number of how many records are attachments. and i see 
some 2 in last line of hexdump, maybe thats it?

> In this, I assume that 0901234567 is the phone number, and "TaXX (M)" is
> the name of the other party.  What is "Skusam mmsky"?  mmsky doesn't
> look like a word, is it just a typo?  What about the stuff that looks
> like email addresses at the bottom?  Is that visible to the user on the
> phone?  And did you send or receive this message?
>   
its sent message

09012345567 - number
TaXX(m) - name of other party
skusam mmsky - subject (no, its not typo, its slovak slang...  
translatedto english its 'i am trying mms')

these 2 numbers which look like mail adresses are not visible on device 
in messaging application, but
when you try to send mms from your phone it opens network connection and 
sends it through it. not
like ordinary sms. so these are probably set by phone operator and taken 
from sim card or newtork itself.

> Also, once I've figured it out, would you object to me including the
> data in the test suite for the module?  This would mean that other
> people would be able to read it.  I would be able to obfuscate the phone
> number and text, but not the image.

no problem, purpose of this mesage was to try if mms work on my phone. 
so image is just random garbage, subject says that i am trying mms and 
text means 'if you will receive it let me know'
so probably change them to something in english. and number is real but 
incomplete (international prefix is missing) so most probably its 
harmless to leave it as it is
