


Date: Fri, 26 Nov 2010 03:26:41 -0800 (PST)
From: "Mrs. Jennifer Wilson" <drangondexan@att.net>
Reply-To: mothejennifer2000-wilson@yahoo.co.uk
Subject: A CALL TO SERVE HUMANITY.
To: undisclosed recipients: ;




Dear Beloved,

My name is Jennifer Wilson I am a dying woman who have decided to donate what I have to you/ church/charity
Organizations. I am 67 years old and I was diagnosed with esophageal Cancer for about 7 Years ago, immediately after the
death of my husband who lived all his Life in America, who has left me everything he worked for.

I have not particularly lived my life so well, as I never really cared for anyone. Though I am very rich, I was never
generous, I was always hostile to people and only focus on my self as that was the only thing I Cared for. But now I
regret all this, as I now know that there is more to life than just wanting to have or make all the money in the world.
I believe when God gives me a second chance to come to this world I would live my life a different way from how I have
lived it. Now that I know My time is near I have been touched by God to donate from what I have Inherited from my late
husband for the good work of God, rather than Allow my relatives to use my husband hard earned funds ungodly.

So far, I have distributed money to some charity organizations in the U.A.E, London and Ireland. Now that my health has
deteriorated so badly, I cannot do this my self any more. I once asked members of my family to Close one of my accounts
and donate the money, which I have there to Charity organization in Bulgaria; they refused and kept the money to
themselves hence, I do not trust them anymore, as they seem not to be contended with what I have left for them. The last
of my money which is the huge Cash deposit that I have with Financial Firm In Europe.

Please i want you to know that all arrangement has been put in place with the finance house for you to get the money
into your care. You need not pay any money upfront for this project. All that is expected of you is to go and sign or
endorse the necessary documentation/representation in your favor/name.

I am writing this from my laptop computer in my hospital bed where I wait for my time to come. I pray that God uses you
to support and assist me with good heart Please pray that the good Lord forgive me my sins. I have asked God to Forgive
me and I believe he has because He is a merciful God. I will be going in for an operation in less than few days. I
decided to WILL/donate the money to you for the good work of the lord, And also to help the motherless and less
privilege and also for the Assistance of the widows according to (JAMES 1:27).

I took this decision because I do not have any child that will inherit This money and my husband relatives are not
inclined to helping poor Persons and I do not want my husband's hard earned money to be misused Or spent in the
manner in which my late husband did not specify. At the moment I cannot take any telephone calls right now due to the
Fact that my relatives are around my health status and me. I wish you all the best and May the good Lord bless you
abundantly, and please use the funds well and always extend the good work to others.

NB: I will appreciate your utmost confidentiality in this matter until the task is accomplished, as I don't want
anything that will jeopardize my last wish. And Also I will be contacting with you by email as I don't want my
relation or anybody to know because they are always around me.

Fill this information

Your Direct Phone Number;

Home Address:

1. Name In Full, 
2. Address,
3. Nationality, 
4. Age, 
5. Sex,
6. Occupation,
7. Marital Status, 
8. Fax, 
9. Scan copy of your identity card or International Passport.

I look forward receiving your return mail.

Regards,
Jennifer Wilson


