


Subject: Fast Money
From: "Money" <Janice@buzztect.info>
Message-ID: <2882479058225850767.576ae68769cd66ab787cecdaf5075c0e.1467566263@hziu4.buzztect.info>
Date: Mon, 29 Nov 2010 12:05:37 -0500
To: <xxx@xxx.xxx>





If you need money fast:
Click Here

You can get $1500 in your account in as fast as one hour!

 At 100DayLoans we pride ourselves in putting our customer's security and personal information protection at the top
of our priority list. We utilize state-of-the-art encryption technology to ensure safety of your information from any
outside harm 24/7. We appreciate you trusting us with your valuable personal information and rest assure that we take an
active and aggressive role in protecting all of your confidential information. 

 Money is any object that is generally accepted as payment for goods and services and repayment of debts in a given
country or socio-economic context. The main functions of money are distinguished as: a medium of exchange; a unit of
account; a store of value; and, occasionally, a standard of deferred payment. Money originated as commodity money, but
nearly all contemporary money systems are based on fiat money. Fiat money is without intrinsic use value as a physical
commodity, and derives its value by being declared by a government to be legal tender; that is, it must be accepted as a
form of payment within the boundaries of the country, for "all debts, public and private". 

 The money supply of a country consists of currency (banknotes and coins) and demand deposits or 'bank money' (the
balance held in checking accounts and savings accounts). These demand deposits usually account for a much larger part of
the money supply than currency. Bank money is intangible and exists only in the form of various bank records. Despite
being intangible, bank money still performs the basic functions of money, being generally accepted as a form of payment.


 The word "money" is believed to originate from a temple of Hera, located on Capitoline, one of Rome's seven hills.
In the ancient world Hera was often associated with money. The temple of Juno Moneta at Rome was the place where the
mint of Ancient Rome was located. The name "Juno" may derive from the Etruscan goddess Uni (which means "the one",
"unique", "unit", "union", "united") and "Moneta" either from the Latin word "monere" (remind, warn, or instruct) or the
Greek word "moneres" (alone, unique). In the Western world, a prevalent term for coin-money has been specie, stemming
from Latin in specie, meaning 'in kind'.





