


From: "Sgt. Adam Caldwell." <logun@zerokaromilik.com>
Reply-To: "Sgt. Adam Caldwell." <private100sgtadam-caldwell000@hotmail.com>
To: sgt.kent11@hotmail.com
Subject: =?US-ASCII?B?RnJvbTogU2d0LiBBZGFtIENhbGR3ZWxsLg==?=
Date: Sat, 04 Dec 2010 07:39:05 -0500



From: Sgt. Adam Caldwell.

Good day and compliments, I know this letter will definitely come to you as a huge surprise, but I implore you to take
your time to go through it carefully as the decision you make will go off a long way to determine my future and
continued existence.

Please allow me to introduce myself. I am Sgt. Adam Caldwell, a US Marine Sgt.serving in the 3rd Battalion, 25th Marine
Regiment that Patrols the An bar province, Iraq. I am desperately in need of assistance and I have summoned up courage
to contact you. I am presently in Iraq and I found your contact particulars in an address journal.

I am seeking your assistance to evacuate the sum of Nine Hundred Thousand US Dollars (Nine Hundred thousand USD) in cash
to the States or any safe country; as far as I can be assured that it will be safe in your care until I complete my
service here in Iraq. This is not stolen money and there are no Dangers involved.

SOURCE OF MONEY:

Some money in various currencies was discovered and concealed in barrels with piles of weapons and ammunition at a
location near one of Saddam Hussein's old Presidential Palaces during a rescue operation and it was agreed by all party
present that the money will be shared among us.

Click this link http://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/middle_east/2988455.stm.

This might appear as an illegal thing to do but I tell you what.

No compensation can make up for the risks we have taken with our lives in this hellhole. The above figure was given to
me as my share and to conceal this kind of money became a problem for me, so with the help of a British contact working
with the UN here (his office enjoys some immunity)I was able to get the package out to a safe location entirely out of
trouble spot.

He does not know the real contents of the package as he believes that it belongs to an American who died in an air raid,
who before giving up trusted me to hand over the package to his close relative. I have now found a secured way of
getting the package out of Iraq for you to pick it up.

I do not know for how long I will remain here, as I have been lucky to survive 2 suicide bomb attacks by Pure Divine
intervention.

This and other reasons put into consideration have prompted me to reach out for help. If it might be of interest to you
then Endeavor to contact me and we would work out the necessary formalities, but I pray that you are discreet about this
mutually benefiting relationship.

Respectfully,
Sgt. Adam Caldwell,
United States Marine Corps. IRAQ.


