


Date: Sat, 27 Nov 2010 13:55:13 -0600
From: Christopher McNeill <congtu@mykind.info>
Reply-To: chriphmcnl@gmail.com
To: mjiaml@yahoo.com
Subject: Re: Hello



Hi,

Greetings to you in the name of God.

I did not send you an email in error.

Please allow me to tell you this; my scam experience and how i got refunded by
the Nigerian Senate House.

My name is Mrs. Marcus Mariam, i am 46years old, from Miami Florida USA. I was
scammed 250,000usd by some criminals/fraudsters from West Africa Nigeria 

which i did not know them before they scammed me, this almost led my life to
start from zero, problems here and there for me everywhere, i was living under


bad credit pressure which included the money i borrowed from friends, my company
and bank loans.


After few months of this ugly situation and experience a friend of mine that had
similar fraud experience years back, advised me on how he was able to get 

refunded after sending alot of money to scammers, he told me to refer my case to
the Nigerian senate House where he was also refunded with apology fee. 

I wrote a mail letter to the address that was giving to me and my case was
seriously taken dealt of at their office. Police stations, ICPC and the EFCC,
all these commissions were in support of investigating my case and helped me
out of the pains.


They only asked me to fill a form and summit, i received an apology letter they
also sanctioned for immediate refund of my money with apology fee of 100,000USD
from the Nigerian Government Reimbursement committee under the strict
supervision of the United Nations to pay Nigerian 419 scam victims.

I was refunded after 10 days of my report and got my money paid into my
account.


My partner in the office that was scammed 70,000usd, i told her about it and she
also contact the center, sent a letter mail to them. She was thanking me so much
last time on phone, She told she me got her money back with no stress plus
apology fee of 100,000usd which makes her money 170,000usd after 15days of her
report to the center.


Finally, I am now using this medium to tell you that, if you have also had any
scam experience on-line or been a victim, please tell the center about it, how
it happened that you got scammed, they will help you to refund your money or
you can also help any close fellow you know around you that he or she has been
scammed before, to help refund his/her money back from this paying center. i
assure you that you will get refunded. kindly, send this message on to friends
and business partners that had similar scam experience after you have been
refunded too. Also, you can assist the center by giving any vital information
that 

could lead to the apprehension of these hoodlums to the Senate House address
below. 

Officer's Name: Adams Okechukwu.

Email Contact: nigeria.resolutionpanel@presidency.com

Tel: +2347098801668

Phone: +2348059781980.


Incase, you do not have any idea on how to report your case to them, all you
need to do is to write a letter mail on how you got scammed with your 

particulars to the contact address or by calling the center phone number and
tell them your story, these people are really helping us all scam victims 

to get their money back or refunded. They do not take anything from you or
demand for money from you, they do their job accordingly and they make sure 

they help you out of your pains. Send your report to them and Lets stop scam
together!!! Help us put an end to scam!!!


Thank you so much for reading through my letter.

Yours Faithfuly,

Mrs. Marcus Mariam. 


