


Date: Thu, 10 Feb 2011 10:33:55 -0800 (PST)
From: Godfred Nana <godfrednana2011@att.net>
Reply-To: godfred_nana@yahoo.com
Subject: I NEED YOUR HELP
To: undisclosed recipients: ;



Dear Beloved,
 
 I am contacting you about a need I have and I believe you are well able to help me. It all depends on our trusting each
 other but I've chosen to contact you prayerfully and believing that you are the person to help me. I am Mr.Godfred
 Nana, 30yrs of age; I became an orphan some couple of years ago. The source of my parent's death was believed
 to be from our detractors who are never happy that my Father was making so much progress. The issue is that my parents
 are diamond merchants in my country Liberia and they made too much money from the business that prompted the government
 of Liberia to probe them.

 So during the crisis in Liberia our home was among the first target by the Liberian rebels. They allegedly said that,
 my late parents have a close relationship with former president of Liberia (Charles Taylor) that was their reason of
 storming our home. My mother died immediately they storm our resident and my father sustained serious bruises that he
 could not survive while in the hospital. I and my younger sister managed to escape during the incident. As i am talking
 to you now, i and my younger sister are staying in Ghana for some obvious reasons that i will like to relay to you on
 your response to this message.

 This is a confidential matter i will like to discuss with someone whom my spirits accepted to deal with. Because after
 my parents exit, the government of Liberia have taken over all of our belongings. They have also emptied my parents
 bank accounts left alone with a deposit my father made in a nearby country called Ghana during his trade to Ghana. No
 one knows of this deposit, it is only me as the next of kin and my father had earlier warned me not to disclose this
 issue to anyone before he died in the hospital after the incident that cause his death. Today I and my younger sister
 find for ourselves in Ghana.

 And life has been very difficult since the government of Ghana started their deportation exercise which says that we
 refugees should evacuate their Bujumbura refugee camp to our various countries. Please my dear beloved, our plans now
 are to relocate from Ghana since we can not afford to go back to Liberia following our past experience as they killed
 our parents, but we will need to move out the fund left by my late father here in Ghana. Meanwhile, my father left an
 order with the depositary that without me, presenting a foreign partner that the company should not mind me. He made
 such an agreement with them following the economic and political crisis in Africa. And any attempt for me to try and
 move this fund alone in my name will cause me more problems than I can imagine as an African young boy, as the
 government may bent on taking this money from me and my sister.

 Once you agree to help us move this fund, we will link you up with our late father's lawyer who endorsed his signatures
 during the day my father was depositing the fund so that he can brief you more better. As soon as we agree, we will
 come to your country where I and my sister will invest the money under your guide. The main reason of contacting you is
 to solicit your help in coming forward to help us claim the fund as my late father instructed and after that we will
 move the Money to your Country for an investment. I have all the documents of the deposit given to me by my late father
 and also the lawyer will help us get all necessary documents that will enable you receive this boxes on our behalf in
 your country for us to come over in your country for investment. So please let me know what will be your compensation
 for helping me and my sister out?

 Please NOTE that the earlier you help me the better as you will be doing God a great favor because our lives are no
 more safe with these people over here. I will need your reply stating your readiness to help in seeing this through. I
 will give our lawyer your contact when I hear from you with your contact info, so we can discuss further arrangement on
 this transaction.I wait for your favorable reply.

 Thanks and be bless,
 Godfred Nana and his Younger Sister


