From: Richard Harmer <news@ascotmedianews.com> 
Subject: Interview Op - HowardBerg, World's Fastest Reader - Completing  A Four Year Program In Just One Year
Date: March 28, 2012 8:40:08 AM EDT 
To: <xxx@xxx.xxx>

Dear xxx :  

Known as the world’s fastest reader, Howard Berg’s brain-based
learning techniques help students and job seekers alike to get ahead.   

His cutting-edge, accelerated learning methods turn information overload into
information assets, and his contribution to the learning process as a whole is
respected worldwide. Students cut years off college attendance and job seekers
gain more marketable skills. Hailed by many national publications, his
strategies have made him a sought after guest on shows such as Neil Cavuto, Jon
Stewart and Live with Regis.  

Please read the following press release and let me know if I may schedule an
interview for you with Mr. Berg that will have audiences/listeners entertained
and in awe of his talents and brain knowledge. Thank you.   

Please see: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uk70cr9_FIw

  Richard Harmer
 RAW Communications Inc. 
2962 Tuscany Way,
 Lewisville, Texas 75067 
richard@bradymediagroup.com
 rharmer@me.com 
 Direct: (817) 937-5359

  FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
  Completing A Four Year Program In Just One Year - This Man
Did It And Anyone Can With His Brain-Boosting Techniques   

McKinney, TX, March 27, 2012 - Howard Stephen Berg is listed in the Guinness
Book of World Records for reading more than 25,000 words a minute and writing
more than 100 words a minute. But it’s not just his reading and writing skills
that make him a well-known figure; it’s his brain-based learning strategies that
make it possible to comprehend and retain the information. Since his strategies
can be learned by anyone, the possibilities are mind-boggling!

  Berg once completed a 1,100 page book on Cleveland’s Morning Exchange and
achieved a perfect score on recall – what makes it truly astounding is that he
was retested three years later on the same book and again had perfect recall. As
a guest on Live with Regis and Kathie Lee, he memorized a 200-page book, reading
at the rate of 13-14 pages/minute, and scored 100% accuracy on an extensive test
given by the author.  

Berg has created more than fourteen other accelerated learning programs
that include speed math and memory. His Time-Warner book Super Reading Secrets
is in its 28th reprint and his Nightingale-Conant program, Mega Speed Reading,
grossed over $65,000,000 and earned him recognition as a leading expert on
brain-based learning. He has been honored by both Who’s Who Among Emerging
Leaders and 2,000 Notable American Men; two leading books that track outstanding
professional performance.  

Known as the world’s fastest reader, Berg’s talents are attributed to the
cutting-edge, accelerated learning techniques he developed that turn information
overload into information assets. His methods have not only enabled the
unemployed to get back to work sooner by teaching them additional skills that
make them more marketable, but by continuing to apply these skills they will
stay on top of the information their success depends upon! He makes life easier
by cutting learning time in half – giving everyone the opportunity to succeed
but with more time left for the things they enjoy.

  Howard Berg is an entertaining celebrity who has appeared on over one
thousand radio and television programs including Neil Cavuto and Jon Stewart,
and is the spokesperson for the Sony E-Reader along with Justin Timberlake,
Peyton Manning and Amy Sedaris.  

He ‘walked the talk’ by completing a four-year psychology program in one year
using his brain-based learning techniques, leading the way for many others to
follow as evidenced by the testimonials on his website at:
www.howiereadingtip.com.

  ###  

TIP SHEET:

  Results from student, Stephen Terry, using Howard Berg’s learning techniques:
Amazingly, at age sixteen Stephen graduated University of Texas at Arlington
with a 4.0 GPA while majoring in Economics! He earned his Masters Degree in Math
at Oklahoma University at age nineteen with a 3.97 GPA. While still only
nineteen he began working as an analyst for the Federal Reserve Bank, and
attended the London School of Economics for his Doctorate.

 
Click here to unsubscribe 

 

 

 

