From: "Strathmore's Business Registry" <info@amtechnetworks.com>
Subject: XXX XXX : A Follow-Up to Your Invitation Into Our Global Professional Directory
Date: March 20, 2012 6:53:57 PM EDT
To: "xxx" <xxx@xxx.xxx>
Reply-To: <info@amtechnetworks.com>

Dear XXXX,

You were recently chosen as a potential candidate to represent your professional
community in the 2012 Edition of Strathmore's Who's Who.

We are pleased to inform you that your candidacy was formally approved March
12th, 2012. Congratulations.

To verify your profile and accept the candidacy, please visit here.   The
Publishing Committee selected you as a potential candidate based not only upon
your current standing, but focusing as well on criteria from executive and
professional directories, associations, and trade journals. Given your
background, the Director believes your profile makes a fitting addition to our
online and hardcover publications.

There is no fee or obligation to be listed. As we are working off of secondary
sources, we must receive verification from you that your profile is accurate.
After receiving verification, we will validate your registry listing within
seven business days.

Once finalized, your listing will share prominent registry space with thousands
of fellow accomplished individuals across the globe, each representing
accomplishment within their own geographical area.

To verify your profile and accept the candidacy, please visit here.   Our
registration deadline for this year's candidates is April 30th, 2012. To ensure
you are included, we must receive your verification on or before this date. On
behalf of our Committee I salute your achievement and welcome you to our
association.

Sincerely, 
 J.M. Blakely
 Vice President, Research Division 
  Strathmore's Business Registry 
26 Bond Street
 Westbury, NY 11590, USA

Confidentiality Notice: This e-mail communication and any attachments may
contain confidential and privileged information for the use of the designated
recipients named above. If you are not the intended recipient, you are hereby
notified that you have received this communication in error and that any review,
disclosure, dissemination, distribution or copying of it or its contents is
prohibited. If you have received this communication in error, please delete the
communication and unsubscribe from the mailing using the options available in
this email.

To remove yourself from future mailings, please visit here to use our automated
removal system. You will be removed from our mailing database within seven (7)
days.
 


