From: "Don Collins" <dcollins@mlgpartners.com>
Subject: Are you taking on new clients?
Date: April 9, 2012 1:16:03 PM EDT
To: xxx@xxx.xxx
Reply-To: dcollins@mlgpartners.com


My name is Don Collins.  If you are open to working with a new client I would appreciate a moment of your time.  I work for a company that specializes in producing new clients for agents in the Real Estate industry.  We get in front of people in your community by placing Inserts into Credit Card, Cable and Utility Billing statements. As the result of a current distribution we have a group of prospects that have a need for and interest in various financial products.  You are welcome to review our inserts at www.seemyinserts.com  Since this is a current group we only want to review this information with agents that are looking to reach out and work with potential new clients.  We realize the effort this takes on your end and this may not be the right time for you.  If this is a good time for you, please respond so we can answer any questions you may have and confirm your fit with these members of your community that need help with making the right decision on such an important matter as Real Estate.  
If you do not want to be included in this email distribution in the future please use this link to unsubscribe: Unsubscribe me from this list.   For New Buyer file the responders are all: 
	•	Ages 30 - 45
	•	Have $15,000 for a downpayment
 
QUESTION ONE:  Are you interested in purchasing a new home? They must have checked the box: YES
 
QUESTION TWO: Do you have $15,000 minimum for a down payment? They must have checked the box: YES.
  
It is important to note that the prospects are paying for the return postage fee back.  We get them involved as they fill out the survey by hand.  Coupled by having them pay for the return postage, we are creating action steps that create memory of conducting the survey; furthermore, those that reply are only the one’s showing signs of sincere initial interests.  There are no endorsements offered (no coupons nor gifts). 
 
These responder files are so effective that we will replace the file, in full, if you do not sit with a minimum of 10% of these members of your community! (Most of our agents have a rate over 20%)
 
You are supplied with the contacts name, Home Address, Age, Date of Birth, Income, Type of Dwelling, Home Value, Length of Residence and Home or Cell phone numbers so that you may contact them directly. All of our files are scrubbed against the National-Do-Not-Call Registry.
We are prepared to make your initial file cost effective so you can see how our file can support you in growing your business. 
Due to the HIGH SUCCESS RATE of this file we provide the following GUARANTEES:
1. A 100% connect rate guarantee.
2. We provide you with a 6 month industry wide exclusive on the file.  Names are never provided to more than one agent.
3. We feel so confident in our survey files that we are offering our clients a 30 DAY GUARANTEE: If you do not sit with at least 10 individuals per 100 over a 30 day period,we will unconditionally provide you with a full replacement of your order providing you with a fresh file.
 
I have been very successful in working with many agents and helping them increase their book of business. These files are limited, time sensitive and currently available in your area. If you feel this can fit into your marketing program or have any questions, you may contact me directly by phone at 855-702-8077 or reply to this email. I look forward to assisting you with your marketing efforts.  If you do not want to be included in this email distribution in the future please use this link to unsubscribe: Unsubscribe me from this list.


 
 