From: BLUEWATER RUBBER & GASKET CO. <bluewaterrubbers@hotmail.com>
Subject: Re: Job Offer
Date: March 21, 2012 9:24:14 AM EDT
To: Undisclosed recipients: ;
Reply-To: <bluewaterrubbers@hotmail.com>


Dear Sir/Madam,


Would you like to work online from home and get paid weekly?


Bluewater Rubber & Gasket Co needs a representative in the United Arab Emirate, Asia, Canada and Australia. You can work online from home and get paid weekly. This Job proposal can be taken as a part time job as it has no negative effect to your present job status. For over 30 years Bluewater Rubber and Gasket has been a leading supplier of hoses, hose assemblies, and gaskets for the oilfield drilling and production markets, both domestically and internationally.  We are committed to being a leader in our industry and are dedicated to providing exceptional customer service, we need capable hands to act as representative/book keeper in the United Arab emirate, Asia, Canada, New Zealand  and Australia on behalf of our company.


We are a manufacturer, representative and distributor which specializes in :


- Custom built hose assemblies
- Hydrostatic hose testing (In conformance with Coast Guard and maritime   regulations)
- Precision Water Jet Cutting
- Die and hand cut gaskets
- Mobile hydraulic trailer for on site hydraulic hose assembly and Installation
- In-House welding
- Rubber stripping


We have our clients we supply weekly all over United states,United Kingdom,Canada,South America,Europe, New Zealand and Australia .


WHAT YOU NEED TO DO FOR US:

The international money transfer tax for legal entities (companies) is 25%, whereas for the individual it is only 7%. It yields the company lesser profit if we are to work that way, while tax for international money transfer made by a private individual is 7% .Hence your assistance!

We need agents to receive payment for our products in bank wire transfers and to resend the money to us via Western Union Money Transfer while the tax shall be 7% instead of 25% which will absolutely favor our company.


JOB DESCRIPTION:

1. Receive payment from Clients by wire transfer.

2. Cash Payments at your Bank.

3. Deduct 10% which will be your commission on each payment processed.

4. Forward the balance after deducting of 10% commission to offices which shall be provided by us as soon as the fund becomes available.


HOW MUCH WILL YOU EARN:

10% from each operation! For instance: you receive $5000 via wire transfer on our behalf. You will cash the money and keep $500 (10% from $5000) for yourself! At the beginning your commission will equal 10%, though later it will increase up to 12%!


ADVANTAGES: You do not have to go out; you will work as an independent contractor right from your home or office. Your job is absolutely legal. You can earn up to $2500-4000 monthly depending on time will spend on this job. You do not need any capital to start. You can do the Work easily without leaving or affecting your present Job. The employees who make more efforts and work harder has strong possibility of becoming managers. Anyway our employees never leave us due to our excellent work condition.

Note:


The average monthly income is about $10,000, and this job takes only 3-7 hours per week.This job is very challenging and you should understand it. We are looking only for the Honest and Open Hearted Individual who satisfies our requirements and glad to offer this job position to you.


WE AWAIT YOUR URGENT RESPONSE.


Warmest Regards,

BLUEWATER RUBBER & GASKET CO.

