


Date: 	Fri, 2 Nov 2007 16:28:22 +0100
From: "Jerry Hanna" <rofadictosaltrabajodoz@adictosaltrabajo.com>
To: xxx@xxx.xxx
Subject: Doctors and Celebrities endorse Anatrim



Anatrim - The up-to-the-moment and most attracting product for corpulent people available - As seen on BBC.Can you
remember all the cases when you said to yourself you would do any thing for being delivered from this fastly growing
pounds of fat?Happily, now no major offering is demanded.With Anatrim, the ground-breaking pound-melting blend, you can
achieve healthier mode of life and become really thinner.Have a look at what our customers write!

"It's unbearably difficult to confess but I was an awful food addict. I greedily devoured all this trash and was unable
to stop. This ruinous passion left off when I started course of taking Anatrim! Holy God, my appetite disappeared, mood
increased and I turned to the happiest person in the world 28 pounds in 2.1 months. So, I can tell you now I became the
happiest person!"

Rita R., Boston

"Since my early childhood I was a bulky boy. You can't even fancy how I hated being ridiculed at school. I hated my
stoutness and I detested myself. After trying many different remedies I heard about Anatrim. It literally took me out of
this nightmare!The very sincere thanks to you, my friends."

Serge Smith, Boston

"You know what?Anatrim saved my marriage!I went into the circle, depression - eating more - just more depression.My wife
was thinking about the leaving me as I was turning in overweight psycho.My friend pointed at your web page and I ordered
up pack of Anatrim at the time. The results I achieved were magnficent, my appetite came to acceptable level, I was in a
good mood oftener, and, certainly, I became able to tighten my belt on some holes.And you see me, the bed became cool
also!"

Mike

There are lots of gratitudes left by happy people taking Anatrim.Why don't you join the thousands and thousands of
slender customers and try this all-natural appetite suppressing energy boosting product now!Do not lose the opportunity!
http://www.sodbrel.com/?vjiuthvkurj


