Licensed to Ill

Brass Monkey
------------

(chorus) Brass Monkey - that funky Monkey
Brass Monkey - junkie
That funky Monkey

Got this dance that's more than real
Drink Brass Monkey - here's how you feel
Put your left leg down - your right leg up
Tilt your head back - let's finish the cup
M.C.A. with the bottle - D. rocks the can
Adrock gets nice with Charlie Chan
We're offered Moet - we don't mind Chivas
Wherever we go with bring the Monkey with us
Adrock drinks three - Mike D. is D.
Double R. foots the bill most definitely
I drink Brass Monkey and I rock well
I got a Castle in Brooklyn - that's where I dwell

(repeat chorus)

Cause I drink it anytime - and anyplace
When it's time to get ill - I pour it on my face
Monkey tastes Def when you pour it on ice
Come on y'all it's time to get nice
Coolin' by the lockers getting kind of funky
Me and the crew - we're drinking Brass Monkey
This girl walked by - she gave me the eye
I reached in the locker - grabbed the Spanish Fly
I put it with the Monkey - mixed it in the cup
Went over to the girl, "Yo baby, what's up?"
I offered her a sip - the girl she gave me lip
It did begin the stuff wore in and now she's on my tip

(repeat chorus)

Step up to the bar - put the girl down
She takes a big gulp and slaps it around
Take a sip - you can do it - you get right to it
We had a case in the place and we went right through it
You got a dry Martini - thinking you're cool
I'll take your place at the bar - I smack you off your stool
I'll down a '40 dog" in a single gulp
And if you got beef you'll get beat to a pulp
Monkey and parties and reelin' and rockin'
Def, def - girls, girls - all y'all jockin'
The song and dance keeping you in a trance
If you don't buy my record I got my advance
I drink it - I think it - I see it - I be it
I love Brass Monkey but I won't give D. it
We got the bottle - you got the cup
Come on everybody let's get ffffff

(repeat chorus)

Lyrics by M. Diamond, A. Yauch and, The King
Music by R. Rubin
c 1986 by Def Jam Music Inc. (ASCAP)/Brooklyn Dust Music (ASCAP) rights reserved


Fight For Your Right (To Party)
-------------------------------

You wake up late for school - man you don't wanna go
You ask you mom, "Please?" - but she still says, "No!"
You missed two classes - and no homework
But your teacher preaches class like you're some kind of jerk

(chorus) You gotta fight for your right to party

You pop caught you smoking - and he said, "No way!"
That hypocrite - smokes two packs a day
Man, living at home is such a drag
Now your mom threw away your best porno mag (Bust it!)

(repeat chorus)

Don't step out of this house if that's the clothes you're gonna wear
I'll kick you out of my home is you don't cut that hair
Your mom busted in and said, "What's that noise?"
Aw, mom you're just jealous - it's the Beastie Boys!

(repeat chorus twice)

Lyrics by R. Rubin, A. Yauch, and The King
Music by R. Rubin and A. Yauch
c 1986 by Def Jam Music Inc. (ASCAP)/Brooklyn Dust Music (ASCAP) rights reserved


Girls
-----

Girls - all I really want is girls
And in the morning it's girls
Cause in the evening it's girls

I like the way that they walk
And it's chill to hear them talk
And I can always make them smile
From White Castle to the Nile

Back in the day
There was this girl around the way
She liked by home-piece M.C.A.
He said he would not give her play
I asked him, "Please?" - he said, "You may."
Her pants were tight and that's ok
If she would dance - I would D.J.
We took a walk down to the bay

I hope she'll say, "Hey me and you should hit the hay!"
I asked her out - she said, "No way!"
So I broke North with no delay
I heard she moved real far away
That was two years ago this May
I seen her just the other day
Jockin' Mike D. to my dismay

Girls - to do the dishes
Girls - to clean up my room
Girls - to do the laundry
Girls - and in the bathroom
Girls - that's all I really want is girls
Two at a time - I want girls
With new wave hairdos - I want girls
I ought to whip out my - girls, girls, girls, girls, girls!

Lyrics by R. Rubin and The King
Music by R. Rubin
c 1986 by Def Jam Music Inc. (ASCAP)/Brooklyn Dust Music (ASCAP) rights
reserved


Hold It Now - Hit It!
---------------------

When I fill my pockets with a knot of dollar bills
Sipping pints of ale out the window sill
When I get my fill I'm chilly chill
Now I just got home because I'm out on bail
What's the time? - it's time to buy ale
Peter eater - parking meter all of the time
If I run out of ale - it's Thunderbird wine
Miller drinking - chicken eating - dress so fly
I got friends in high places that are keeping me high
Dow with Mike D. and it ain't no hassle
Got the ladies of the eighties from here to White Castle

(chorus) Hold it now - hit it!

M.C. - Adam Yauch in the place to be
And all the girls are on me cause I'm down with Mike D.
I'm down with Mike D. and it ain't no baloney
For real, not phony - "O.E." and Rice-a-Roni
I come out at night 'cause I sleep all day
And I'm the King Adrock and he's M.C.A.
Well I'm cruising, I'm bruising - I'm never ever losing
I'm in my car - I'm going far and dust is what I'm using
Around the way is where I'm from
And I'm from Manhattan and I'm not a bum
Because you're pud-slapping, ball-flapping - got that juice
My name's Mike D. and I can do that Jerry Lewis

(repeat chorus)

Hip-hop, body rockin' - doing the do
Beer drinking, breath stinking, sniffing glue
Belly flipping, always illing, busting caps
My name's Mike D. and I write my own snaps
I'm a peep-show seeking on the forty-deuce
I'm a killer at large and I'm on the loose
Pistol packing, Monkey drinking, no money bum
I come from Brooklyn 'cause that's where I'm from
Cheap-skate, perpetrating - money hungry jerk
Everyday I drink a "O.E." and I don't go to work
You drippy nose knuckle-head - you're we behind the ears
You like men - and we like beer.

(repeat chorus)

King of the Ave. with the Def female
You're rhyming and stealin' with the freshest ale
Cooling at the crib watching my TV
Ed Norton - Ted Knight - and Mr. Ed
Pump it up homeboy - just don't stop
Chef Boy-ar-dee cooling on the pot
I take no slack cause I got the knack
And I'm never dusting out cause I torch that crack
The King Adrock - that is my name
And you're drinking Moet - we got the champagne
A quarter dropping - going shopping buying wigs
Surgeon general cut professor - D.J. Thigs

(repeat chorus)

Lyrics by M.Diamond, A. Yauch, and The King
Music by M. Diamond, R. Rubin, A. Yauch, and The King
c 1986 by Def Jam Music Inc. (ASCAP)/Brookly Dust Music (ASCAP) rights
reserved


The New Style
-------------

And on the cool check in
Center stage on the mic
And we're puttin' it on wax
It's the new style

Four and three and two and one (What up!)
And when I'm on the mic - the suckers run (Word!)
Down with Adrock and Mike D. and you ain't
And I got more juice than Picasso got paint
Got rhymes that are rough and rhymes that are slick
I'm not surprised you're on my dick
B-E-A-S-T-I-E, what up Mike D.
Ah yeah, that's me
I got franks and pork and beans
Always bust the new routines
I get it - I got it, I know it's good
The rhymes I write - you wish you would I'm never in training - my voice is
not straining
People always biting and I'm sick of complaining
So I went into the locker room during classes
Bust into your locker and I smashed your glasses
You're from Secausus - I'm from Manhattan
You're jealous of me because your girlfriend is cattin'

(bridge) There it is - kick it!!!

Father to many - married to none
And in case you're unaware I carry a gun
Stepped into the party - the place was over packed
Saw the kid that dissed my homey and shot him in the back
I had to get a beeper 'cause my phone is tapped
You better keep your mouth shut 'cause I'm fully strapped
I got money in the bank - I can still get high
That's why your girlfriend thinks that I'm so fly
I've got money and juice - twin sisters in my bed
Their father had envy so I shot him in the head
If I played guitar I'd be Jimmy Page
The girlie's I like are underage (Check it!)
Girls with boyfriends are the kind I like
I'll steal your honey like I stole your bike
Your father - he's jealous 'cause I'm making that green
I've got the girlie's numbers from the places I been

(repeat bridge)

You wanna know why - because I'm
October 31st - that is my date of birth
I got to the party and I did the Smurf
Taxing all females from coast to coast
And when I get my fill I'm chilly most
We rag-tag girlies back at the hotel
And then we all switch places when I ring the bell
I chill at White Castle 'cause it's the best
But I'm fly at Fat Burger when I way out west
K-I-N-G-A-D whammy
All the fly ladies are on my jammy
Went to the prom - wore the fly blue rental
Got six girlies in my Lincoln Continental
Met this girl at the party and she started to flirt
I told her some rhymes and she pulled up her skirt
Spent some bank - I got a high powered jumbo
Rolled up a wooly and I watched Colombo

Let me clear my throat - Kick it over here baby pop
And let all the fly skimmies, feel the beat...drop

Coolin' on the corner on a hot summer day
Just me, my posse and M.C.A.
A lot of beer - a lot of girls - and a lot of cursing
Twenty-two automatic on my person
Got my hand in my pocket and my finger's on the trigger
My posse's gettin' big - and my posse's gettin' bigger
Some voices got treble - some voices got bass
We got the kind of voices that are in your face
Like the bun to the burger - like the burger to the bun
Like the cherry to the apple - to the peach to the plum
I'm the king of the Ave. - and I'm the king of the block
I'm M.C.A. - and I'm the King Adrock
I'm Mike D. - I got all the fly juice
On the checkin' at the party on the forty deuce
Walking down the block with the fresh fly threads
Beastie Boys fly the biggest heads

Lyrics by M. Diamond, R. Rubin, A. Yauch, and The King
Music by R. Rubin and The King
c 1986 by Def Jam Music Inc. (ASCAP)/Brooklyn Dust Music (ASCAP) rights
reserved


No Sleep 'Til Brooklyn
----------------------

(chorus) No sleep 'til - Brooklyn

Foot on the pedal - never ever false metal
Engine running hotter than a boiling kettle
My job's ain't a job - it's a damn good time
City to city - I'm running my rhymes
On location - touring around the nation
Beastie Boys always on vacation
Itchy trigger finger but a stable turntable
I do what I do best because I'm illing and able
Ain't no faking - your money I'm taking
Going coast to coast - watching all the girlies shaking
While you're at the job working nine to five
The Beastie Boys at the Garden - cold kickin' it live

(bridge) No sleep 'til -

Another place - another train
Another bottle in the brain
Another girl - another fight
Another drive all night
Our manager's crazy - he always smokes dust
He's got his own room at the back of the bus
Tour around the world - you rock around the clock
Plane to hotel - girls on the jock
We're thrashing hotels like it's going out of style
Getting paid along the way cause it's worth your while
Four on the floor - Adrock's out the door
M.C.A.'s in the back because he's skeezin' with a whore
We got a safe in the trunk with money in a stack
With dice in the front and Brooklyn's in the back

(repeat bridge)

(repeat chorus)

Ain't seen the light since we started this band
M.C.A. - get on the mic my man
Born and bred Brooklyn - U.S.A.
They all me Adam Yauch - but I'm M.C.A.
Like a lemon to a lime - a lime to a lemon
I sip the def ale with all the fly women
Got limos, arena, TV shows
Autograph pictures and classy hos
Step off homes - get out of my way
Taxing little girlies form here to L.A.
Waking up but I get to sleep
Cause I'll be rocking this party eight days a week

(repeat chorus)

Lyrics by M.Diamond, A. Yauch, and The King
Music by R. Rubin, A. Yauch, and The King
c 1986 by Def Jam Music Inc. (ASCAP)/Brooklyn dust Music (ASCAP) rights
reserved


Paul Revere
-----------

How here's a little story - I've got to tell
About three bad brothers - you know so well
It started way back in history
With Adrock, M.C.A., and me - Mike D.
Been had a little horsy named Paul Revere
Just me and my horsy and a quart of beer
Riding across the land - kicking up sand
Sheriff's posse on my tail cause I'm in demand
One lonely Beastie I be
All by myself - without nobody
The sun is beating down on my baseball hat
The air is gettin' hot - the beer is getting flat
Lookin' for a girl - I ran into a guy
His name is M.C.A., I said, "Howdy" - he said, "Hi"

He told a little story - that sounded well rehearsed
Four days on the run and that he's dying of thirst
The brew was in my hand - and he was on my tip
His voice was hoarse, his throat was dry - he asked me for a sip
He said, "Can I get some?"
I said, "You can't get none!"
Had a chance to run
He pulled out his shotgun
He was quick on the draw - I thought I'd be dead
He put the gun to my head and this is what he said,

"Now my name is M.C.A. - I've got a license to kill
I think you know what time it is - it's time to get ill
Now what do we have here - an outlaw and his beer
I run this land, you understand - I make myself clear."
We stepped into the wind - he had a gun, I had a grin
You think this story's over but it's ready to begin

"Now I got the gun - you got the brew
You got two choices of what you can do
It's not a tough decision as you can see
I can blow you away or you can ride with me" I said, I'll ride with you if
you can get me to the border
The sheriff's after me for what I did to his daughter
I did it like this - I did it like that
I did it with a whiffleball bat
So I'm on the run - the cop's got my gun
And right about now - it's time to have some fun
The King Adrock - that is my name
And I know the fly spot where they got the champagne."
We rode for six hours the we hit the spot
The beat was a bumping and the girlies was hot
This dude was staring like he knows who we are
We took the empty spot next to him at the bar
M.C.A. said, "Yo, you know this kid?"
I said, "I didn't." - but I know he did
The kid said, "Get ready cause this ain't funny
My name's Mike D. and I'm about to get money."
Pulled out the jammy - aimed it at the sky
He yelled, "Stick 'em up!" - and let two fly
Hands went up and people hit the floor
He wasted two kids that ran for the door
"I'm Mike D. and I get respect
Your cash and your jewelry is what I expect"
M.C.A. was with it and he's my ace
So I grabbed the piano player and I punched him in the face
The piano player's out - the music stopped
His boy had beef - and he got dropped
Mike D. grabbed the money - M.C.A. snatched the gold
I grabbed two girlies and a beer that's cold.

Lyrics by D. McDaniels, J. Simmons, and The King
Music by R. Rubin, J. Simmons, and The King
c 1986 by Def Jam Music Inc. (ASCAP)/Brooklyn Dust Music (ASCAP) rights
reserved


Posse In Effect
---------------

Yes, yes, y'all - you don't stop
You keep it on - and shockin' the place
Well I'm M.C.A. - I got nothing to prove
Pay attention - my intention is to bust a move
I drink quarts and cans and bottles and sixes
Between the turntables keep the vodka and the mixes
I'm Mike D. - I got the deuces wild
A list of girlies numbers that I've dialed
I do the Smurf, the Popeye, and the Jerry Lewis
I like Bullwinkle but I don't like Moose
I'm schoolin' in the boys' room - coolin' by the locker
All the girls in class know that I'm the cool rocker
Punk in the hall - man I should of oughtta hit him
Had the fresh rhymes and the kid cold bite 'em
Smokin' in the boys room is what I do best
While you were at a party - your girlfriend fessed
I keep a pistol in my pocket so you better be cautious
Fly around the world - but it makes me nauseous
Mike D.'s day off everyday of the week
I got to the party - and I did the freak
I got a girl in the Castle and one in the pagoda
You know I got rhymes like Abe Vigoda
I'm a Def Manhattan killer - a rhyme driller
A mike in my hand and a mouth full of Miller
I got a hat not a visor - I drink Budweiser
The turntables - up on the drum riser
The needle's in the groove and the vinyl's on the platter
I know that I'm fly man there's no need to flatter
I travel around the globe - it's keeping girlies dizzy
My name's Mike D. - now watch me get busy y'all

You're a fake wearin' sucker whose gold got rusted
Cheaper than a hot do with no mustard
You tried to steal my fresh and you got cold busted
Because your crew's all soft and I'm disgusted
I'm from downtown the city of Manhattan
I got a lotta girlies and not one's cattin'
My posse's in effect and we're doin' the do
And we got more rhymes than your damn crew
Caught you poppin' that weak and you must of been dusted
Stuck you head in the toilet and stone cold flushed it
Word.

Lyrics by M. Diamond, R. Rubin, A. Yauch, and The King
Music by R. Rubin
c 1986 by Def Jam Music Inc. (ASCAP)/Brooklyn Dust Music (ASCAP) rights
reserved


Rhymin' And Stealin'
--------------------

Because mutiny on the bounty's what we're all about
I'm gonna board your ship and turn it on out
No soft sucker with a parrot on his shoulder
'Cause I'm bad gettin' bolder - cold getting colder
Terrorizing suckers on the seven seas
And if you've got beef - you'll get capped in the knees
We got sixteen men on a dead man's chest
And I shot those suckers and I'll shoot the rest

(chorus) Most illingest b-boy - I got that feeling
Cause I am most ill and I'm rhymin' and stealin'

Snatching gold chains - vicking pieces of eight
I got your money and your honey and the fly name plate
We got wenches on the benches - and bitties with titties
Housing all girlies from city to city
One for all and all for one
Taking out M.C.'s with a big shotgun
All for one and one for all
Because the Beastie Boys have gone A.W.O.L.
Friggin' in the riggin' and cuttin' your throat
Big biting suckers getting thrown in the moat
We got maidens and wenches - man they're on the ace
Captain Bly is gonna die when we break his face

(repeat chorus)

Ali Baba and the forty thieves

Torching and crakin' and rhymin' and stealin'
Robbin' and raping - busting two in the ceiling
I'm wheeling' - I'm dealin' - I'm drinking, not thinking
Never cower, never shower - and I'm always stinking
Yo ho ho and a pint of Brass Monkey
And when my girlie shakes her hips - she sure gets funky
Skirt chasing, free basing - killing every village
We drink and rob and rhyme and pillage

(repeat chorus)

I've been drinking my rum - a Def son of a gun
I fought the law and I cold won
Black Beard's weak - Moby Dick's on the tick
'Cause I pull out my jammy and squeeze off six
My pistol is loaded - I shot Betty Crocker
Deliver Colonel Sanders down to Davey Jones' locker
Rhymin' and stealin' in a drunken state
And I'll be rockin' my rhymes all the way to Hell's gate

(repeat chorus)

Lyrics by M. Diamond, A. Yauch, and The King
Music by R. Rubin, A. Yauch, and The King
c 1986 by Def Jam Music Inc. (ASCAP)/Brooklyn Dust Music (ASCAP) rights
reserved


She's Crafty
------------

Well this girl came up to me - she says she's new in town
But the crew been said they seen her around
I thought they were right but I didn't wanna know
The girlie was Def and she wanted to go
I think her name is Lucy but they all call Loose
I think I thought I seen her on eighth and forty-deuce
The next think she said, "My place or yours?
Let's kick some bass behind closed doors!"
We got into the cab - the cab driver said
He recognized my girlie from the back of her head
He said a little something about tip to base
So I made him stop the cab to get out of the place
I shouldn't have looked back man I'll always regret it
Something's going on and I'll probably never get it
She was crying like a baby - stupid dumb
It's just too bad that girl's a bum

(chorus) She's crafty - she's gets around
She's crafty - she's always down
She's crafty - she's got a gripe
She's crafty - and she's just my type
She's crafty

I spent my last dollar to by a Sabrett
When I seen this girl I could never forget
Now I like nothing better than a pretty girl smile
And I haven't seen a smile that pretty in a while
The girl came up to me she said she loved the show
Asked her to come home and she couldn't say, "No!"
We got the crib - there's Adam and D.
We didn't say a word - they just stared at me
I said, "I don't know her just met her tonight."
And Adrock started hiding everything in sight
D. pulled me over said, "Hid your gold,
The girl is crafty like ice is cold!"
The girl is crafty - she knows all the moves
I started playing records - she knew all the grooves
He thought she was a thief - and D. was right
But I just figured she'd spend the night
When I woke up late in the afternoon
She had taken all the things from inside his room
I found myself sleeping in the middle of the floor
She had taken the bed and the chest of drawers
The mirror, the TV, the guitar cord
My remote control and my old skateboard
She robbed us blind - she took all we owned
And the boys blamed me for bringing her home

(repeat chorus)

Lyrics by A. Yauch and The King
Music by R. Rubin and The King
c 1986 by Def Jam Music Inc. (ASCAP)/Brooklyn Dust Music (ASCAP) rights
reserved


She's On It
-----------

There's no confusion in her conclusion
She wants to waste my time and that's no delusion
Her final decision is perfection and precision
She's grade A class - number one in her division

(chorus) She's on it

She acts like a nag - I don't know how it started
Even when I'm chillin' - she acts retarded
It's gets annoying - so high on the tip
If a pirate had a Def Jam shirt - she'd be hard on his tip

(repeat chorus)

Cold chillin' in the spot - and she won't stop
She'll do what's best just to reach the top
She studies real hard - all night she'll cram
In school she majors in advanced Def Jam

(repeat chorus)

Her bedroom eyes - they start to twitch
But she won't front cause she's got that itch
She'd drop to her knees if I'd only say please
Instead of counting sheep - cold counting Beasties

(repeat chorus)

Lyrics by The King
Music by R. Rubin
c 1986 by Def Jam Music Inc. (ASCAP)/Brooklyn Dust Music (ASCAP) rights
reserved


Slow And Low
------------

(chorus) Let it flow - let yourself go
Slow and low - that is the tempo

It's never old school - all brand new
So everybody catch - the bugaloo flu
Not like a fever - not like a cold
The beats are clear - the rhymes are bold
So don't see a doctor or see a nurse
Just listen to the music - first things first
First of all - get off the wall
It's time to party so have a ball
Because we slowed it on down - so get the hell up
Like a volcano I'll erupt
We got determination - bass and highs
White Castle fries only come in one size
What you see is what you get
And you ain't seen - nothing yet

(repeat chorus)

I do not sing - but I make a Def song
You could live your whole life - and I hope you live long
On the Gong Show we won't get gonged
We're the Beastie Boys - not Cheech and Chong
Strong as an ox - fresh out the box
The crowd is so live - they're coming in flocks
And when we go on - the crowd goes off
It's all hard rock - there's nothing soft
(repeat chorus)
We don't only rock the house but we'll house we rock
We don't stroll but we roll straight to the top
M.C.A., Adrock, Mike D. makes three
And we can do it like this in the place to be
When I'm recorded - you'll be rewarded
I know my song is Def 'cause you all applauded
Not P.C.P. or L.S.D. - just me Mike D. in the place to be
This is not free - you must pay a fee
Cash on delivery like a C.O.D.
(repeat chorus)
The beat is slow in order to dance
I wanna hear I dos and no I can't
First you move your legs - and then your arms
It's not fast and nervous - this dance is calm
It's truly stable and you ought to be able
To dance to the record when it's on the turntable
(repeat chorus)

Lyrics by D. Hayden, D. McDaniels, J. Simmons
Music by R. Rubin
c 1986 by Def Jam Music Inc. (ASCAP)/Brooklyn Dust Music (ASCAP) rights
reserved

Slow Ride
---------

They got a committee to get me off the block
'Cause I say my rhymes loud and I say 'em nonstop
Because being bad news is what we're all about
We went to White Castle and we got thrown out
I got my boy Mike D. - I got the King Adrock I got the jammy with the ammo
inside my sock
I shot homeboy but the bullet was a dud
So I reached in the Miller cooler - grabbed a cool Bud
Slow riding, gun hidin' on the go
I'm fly like an eagle and I drink Old Crow
I'm the king of the classroom - coolin' in the back
My teacher had beef so I gave her a smack
She chased me out of class 0 she was strapped with a ruler
Went to the bathroom - rolled myself a wooler
With bottle in hand at the microphone stand
A. yo homeboy - what you drinkin' man

I got money - I got juice
I got to the party and I got loose
I got rhythm - I got rhymes
I got the girlies with the Def behinds
I got ill - I got busted
I got dust and I got dusted
I got gold - I got funky
I got the new dance - they call the Brass Monkey

Because I'm hard hittin' - always biten - cool as hell
I got trees on my mirror so my car won't smell
Sittin' around the house - gettin' high and watchin' tube
Eating Colonel's chicken - drinkin' Heineken brew
I'm a gangster, I'm a prankster - I'm the king of the Ave.
I'm hated, confrontated for the juice that I have
All the fly ladies are making a fuss
But I can't pay attention - 'cause I'm on that dust

Lyrics by M. Diamond, A. Yauch, and The King
Music by M. Diamond, R. Rubin, A. Yauch, and The King
c 1986 by Def Jam Music Inc. (ASCAP)/Brooklyn Dust Music (ASCAP) rights
reserved


Time To Get Ill
---------------

I'm not the type of person who likes to waste my time
And when I'm on the mic - I just say my rhymes
Because I'm out on bail - the check is in the mail
They can sentence me to life - but I won't go to jail
I'm cool calm collected - from class I was ejected
Just me, Mike D., and M.C.A. - we're rarely disrespected
I got all the time that I need to kill
What's the time? - it's time to get ill

You been fully captivated by that funky ass bass
Your girlfriend screams when M.C.A.'s in the place
He stumbles in the room with the Chivas in his hand
Cold chillin' on the spot at the microphone stand
I'd have the pedal to the metal if I had a car
But I'm chiller with the Miller - cold coolin' at the bar
I can drink a quart of Monkey and still stand still
What's the time? - it's time to get ill

Went outside my house - I went down to the deli
I spent my last dime to refill my fat belly
I got rhymes galime - I got rhymes galilla
And I got more rhymes than Phillis Diller
M.C.A. takes a stand - man you're in command
Homeboy, turn it out and don't give a damn
My name is M.C.A. - I've got a license to kill
What's the time? - it's time to get ill

Riding down the block with my box in my hand
Today I feel like chillin' just as chill as I can
Coolin' on the corner with a forty of O.E.
'Cause me and M.C.A. we're down with Mike D.
When I run a jam - I don't give a damn
When I'm throwing bass - I say, "Thank you ma'am."
Fuel injected, rhyme connected - running things
I'm the King Adrock and I'm the king of all kings
I'm looking for a spot - things are gettin' hot
I'm M.C.A., I'm here to stay - and you sir, are not
Oh no, it could not be - it's such a sight to see
It's such a trip - you're on my tip so listen to Mike D.
My work is my play - cause I'm playing when I work
My name's Mike D., as you can see and I can dot the jerk
M.C.A., Adrock, Mike D. - it's chill
What's the time? - it's time to get ill

Lyrics by M. Diamond, A. Yauch, and The King
Music by R. Rubin and The King
c 1986 by Def Jam Music Inc. (ASCAP)/Brooklyn Dust Music (ASCAP) rights
reserved

---------------------------------------------------------------------------
Paul's Boutique

        Now Randy listen I rock a house party at the drop of a hat I beat a
        biter down with an aluminum bat a lot of people they be Jonesin'
just to hear me rock the mic In the right car at the right price in mint
condition they'll be staring at the radio staying up all night so like a
pimp I'm pimpin' I got a boat to eat shrimp in Nothing wrong with my leg
just B-boy limpin' Got arrested at the Mardi Gras for jumping on a float My
man MCA's got a beard like a billy goat oowah oowah is my disco call MCA
hu-huh I'm gettin' rope y'all Routines I bust rhymes I write And I'll be
busting routines and rhymes all night Like eating burgers or chicken or
you'll be picking your nose I'm on time and that's how it goes You heard my
style I think you missed the point that's the joint Mike D with your bad
self running things What's up with your bad breath onion rings I'm Nike D
and I'm back from the dead Chillin' with Pig Pen down at Club Med Make
another record 'cause the people they want more of this Suckers they be
saying they can take out Adam Horovitz Hurricane you got clout Other DJ's
he'll take your head out A puppet on a string I'm paid to sing or rhyme Or
do my thing I'm In a lava lamp inside the brain hotel I might be peakin' or
freakin' I'm known to rock well The Patty Duke the wrench and then I bust
the tango Got more rhymes than Jamaica got Mango Kangols I got the peg leg
at the end of my stump Shake your rump Never been dumped 'cause I'm the
most mackinest Never been jumped 'cause I'm known the most packinest Yeah
we've got beef chief We're knocking out teeth chief And if you don't
believe us you should question your belief Keith Like Sam the butcher
bringing Alice the meat Like Fred Flintstone driving around with bald feet
Should I have another sip no skip it In the back of the ride and bust with
the whippet Rope a dope dookies all around the neck *Whoo ha yo garcon the
cheque* Running from the law the press and the parents *Is your name
Michael Diamond?* No mine's Clarence From downtown Manhattan the village My
style is wild and you know that it still is Disco bag schlepping and you're
doing the bump Shake your rump Johnny Ryall is the bum on my stoop I gave
him fifty cents to buy some soup He knows the time with the fresh
Gucci watch He's even more over than the mayor Ed Koch Washing
windows on the Bowery at a quarter to four 'Cause he ain't gonna work on
Maggie's farm no more Living on borrowed time and borrowed money Sleepin'
on the street there ain't a damn thing funny Hand me down food and hand me
down clothes A rockabilly past of which nobody knows Makes his home all
over the place He goes to sleep by falling down on his face Sometimes known
as the leader of the homeless Sometimes drunk and he's always phoneless
Sleepin' on the street in a cardboard box He's better off drinkin' than
smokin' the rocks Johnny Ryall He drinks where he lies He's covered with
flies He's got the hand me down Pumas and the tie dyes Go upstate and get
your head together Thunderbird is the word and you're light as a feather
Detox at the flop house no booze allowed Remember the good old days with
the rockabilly crowd Memphis is where he's from He lives in the street but
he's no bum A rockabilly star from the days of old He used to have teeth
all filled with gold A platinum voice but only gold records On the bass was
boots on the drums was checkers Luis Vuitton with the Gucci guitar Johnny
Ryall *Who do you think you are* Johnny Ryall Donald Trump Donald Tramp
living in the Men's Shelter Wonder Bread bag shoes and singing Helter
Skelter He asks for a dollar you know what it's for Bottle after bottle
he'll always need more He's no less important than you working class stiffs
Drinks a lot of liquor but he don't drink piss Paid his dues playing the
blues He claims that he wrote the Blue Suede Shoes Elvis shaved his head
when he went into the army *That's right y'all his name is* Johnny Johnny
Ryall I looked out the window and seen his bald head I ran to the fridge
        and pulled out an egg Scoped him with my scopes he had no hair
        Launched that shot and he was caught out there Saw the convertible
driving by Loaded up the slingshot and let one fly He went for his to find
he didn't have one Put him in check correct with my egg gun The egg a
symbol of life Go inside your house and bust out your wife Pulled out the
jammy he thought it was a joke The trigger I pulled his face the yoke
Reached in his pocket took all his cash Left my man standing with an egg
moustache Suckers they come a dime a dozen And when I say dozen you know
what I'm talking about Humpty Dumpty was a big fat egg He was playing the
wall and then he broke his leg Tossed it out the window three minutes hot
Hit the Rastaman he said *bloodclot* Which came first the chicken or the
egg I egged the chicken then I ate his leg Riding the trains in between
cars When I pull out the station *you're gonna get yours* Drive by eggings
plaguing L.A. *Yo they just got my little cousin ese* Sometimes hard boiled
sometimes runny It comes from a chicken not a bunny dummy People laugh it's
no joke My name's Yauch and I'm throwing the yoke *Now they got me in a
cell* but I don't care It was then that I caught catching people out there
We all dressed in black we snuck up around the back We began to attack the
eggs did crack on Haze's back Sam I am down with the program Green eggs and
ham Yosemite Sam Come Halloween you know I come strapped I throw it at a
sucker K-pap You made the mistake you judge a man by his race You go
through life with egg on your face You woke up in the morning with a
peculiar feeling You looked up and saw egg dripping from the ceiling
Families puck rocks the businessman I'll dog anybody with an egg in my hand
Not like the crack that you put in a pipe But crack on your forehead here's
a towel now wipe They can't catch me never gonna find me They're never
gonna know that I'm the High Plains Drifter Pulled over to the
river to take a rest Pulled out a pair of pliers and pulled the
bullet out of my chest Fear and loathing across the country listening to my
8 track Reached behind the seat and grabbed a Kool from the pack Long
distance from my girl and I'm talking on the cellular She said that she was
sorry and I said yeah the hell you were Check my rear view mirror check the
gold tooth display Check the odometer and I was on my way Cause I'm a high
plains drifter the best that you can get A strapped shoplifter a pirate on
cassette Bust a Travis Bickle when I feel that I'm getting pushed Don't
step to me or you're gonna get mushed Doing 120 plowing over mail boxes
Radar detector to tell me where the cops is Spend another night at the
Motel 6 It's five dollars extra get the porno flicks Concoct a black and
tan in my brandy snifter I'm a kleptomaniac K-Mart shoplifter Cash flow
getting low so I had to pull a job I found a nice place to visit but a
better place to rob Left the car outside with the engine still revvin' Time
to get busy at 7-Eleven Went inside to make my withdrawal I would've took
what he had had had I had to take it all Knucklehead deli tried to gyp me
on the price So I clocked him off the turban with the bag of ice Mellow
like Jell-O cool like lemonade Made my getaway and I thought that I had it
made I feel like Steve McQueen a former movie star Look in my rearview
mirror seen a police car Ballantine quarts with the puzzle on the cap I
couldn't help but notice I was caught in a speed trap Dirty Mary Crazy
Larry on the run from Dirty Harry Stash the cash in the dash but my gun I
did carry I'm seeing blue and red flashing deep in the night I got my alibi
straight and I pulled over to the right Cop knocked on my window and said
Boy where's the fire you've got a mailbox on your bumper and a bald front
tire *Outta the car longhair* your goose is cooked Read me my rights
fingerprinted and booked Makin' like a D.T. driving a Gran Fury Wherever I
hang my hat's my home and my past is kind of blurry Every dog will have its
day and mine will be in front of a jury I'm the High Plains Drifter and I'm
never in a hurry Read me my rights as if I didn't know this Threw me in the
tank with the drunk called Otis With his five o' clock shadow he smelled of
3-day old beer My man turned to me and said why are you here? I said I'm
charming and dashing I'm rental car bashing Phony paper passing at Nix
Check Cashing Went before the judge he sent me to the Brooklyn House of D.
He said you behave son or we'll throw away the key Harry Houdini'd out the
cuffs I kicked the screw in the knee Took the bailiff's wallet and went
straight to O.T.B. I had a good feeling easy come easy go I bet on one
horse to win and your mother to show And sure enough that nag came in
Brought my ticket to the window and collected my win Broke into my new car
with a wire coat hanger Hot wired hot wheeled and *Suzy is a headbanger*
Now here we go dropping science dropping it all over Like bumping
around the town like when you're driving a Range Rover Expanding
the horizons and expanding the parameters Expanding the rhymes of sucker
M.C. amateurs Naugels, Isaac Newton Scientific E.Z. Ben Franklin with the
kite getting over with the key Rock shocking the mic as many times times
the times tables Rock well to tell dispel all of the old fables I've been
dropping the new science and kicking the new knowledge An M.C. to a degree
that you can't get in college The dregs of the earth and the eggs that I
eat I've got pegs through my hands and one through my feet Shea Stadium the
radium E M D squared Got kicked out of the Palladium you think that I cared
It's the sound of science Public service announcement time and money for
girls covered with honey You lie and aspire to be as cunning Reeling and
rockin' and rollin' B size D cup Order the quarter deluxe why don't you
wake up My mind is kinda flowin like an oil projector Had to get up to get
the Jimmy protector Went berserk and worked and exploded She woke up in the
morning and her face was coated Buddy you study the man on the mic D. do
what you like Drunk a skunk am I from the celebration To peep that freak
unique penetration I figured out who makes the crack It's the suckers with
the badges and the blue jackets A professor of science cause I keep
droppin' it I smell weak cause you keep poppin' it People always asking
what's the phenomenon Yo what's up know what's going on No one really knows
what I'm talking about Yeah that's right my name's Yauch Ponce De Leon
constantly on The fountain of youth not Robotron Peace is a word I've heard
before So move and move and move upon the dance floor I'm gonna die gonna
die one day Cause I'm goin and goin and goin this way Not like a roach or a
piece of toast I'm going out first class not going out coach Rock my Adidas
never rock Fila *I do not sniff the coke I only smoke sinsemilla* With my
nose I knows and with my scopes I scope What I live I write and that is
strictly rope I've got science for any occasion Postulating theorems
formulating equations Cheech wizard in a snow blizzard Eating chicken
gizzards with a girl named Lizzy Dropping science like when Galileo dropped
his orange Stay up all night go to sleep watching Dragnet Never sleep alone
because Jimmy's the magnet I'm so rope they call me Mr. Roper When
the troubles arise I'm the cool coper On the mic I score just like
the Yankees Get over on Ms. Crabtree like my main man Spankee Excuse me
young lady I don't mean to trouble ya But you're looking mighty fine inside
your B.M.W. I got lucky I brought home a kitten Before I got busy I
schlepped on my mitten Can't get better odds cause I'm a sure thing Proud
Mary keeps on turning rolling like a Ring Ding Jump the turnstile never pay
the tool Doo wa diddy bust with the pre-roll Customs jail me over an herb
seed Don't rat on your boy over some rat weed Not perfect grammar always
perfect timing The Mike stands for money and the D. is for diamonds Out of
your back door and into another Your boyfriend doesn't know about me and
your mother Roses are red the sky is blue I got my barrel at your neck so
what the fuck you gonna do It's just two wheels and me the wind in my eyes
The engine is the music and my nine's by my side Cause you know why a you
see H. I'm takin' all M.C.'s out of the place Takin' life as it comes no
fool am I I'm goin' off gettin' paid and I don't ask why Playin' beats on
my box makin' music for the many Know alota funky girls who like to do
their thing A lot of parents like to think I'm a villain I'm just chillin'
like Bob Dylan I smoke cheeba it helps me with my brain I might be a little
dusted but I'm not insane People come up to me and they try to talk shit
man I've been making records since you were sucking on your mother's limp
dick Girl you're walking tall now with your fancy clothes You got fancy
things going up your nose You get fancy gifts from expensive men You're a
dog on a leash like a pig in a pen Mothership connection getting girl's
affection If your life needs correction don't follow my direction You got
your 8 by 10 your agent your Harley You be driving around Hollywood yes
sorry charlie Cause I'm running things like some Mack motherfucker Your
only claim to fame is you're a false fake sucker You slip you slack you
clock me you lack While I'm reading on the road by my man Jack Kerouac My
veins are like vines Filled with red wine Poetry in motion coconut lotion I
had to diss the girl because she got too emotional Are you experienced
little girl I want to know what goes on in your little girl world Give time
for your mind it's hard to forget me I'll take your pride for a ride if you
let me So peace out now, and keep peacing out Full throttle to the bottle
and full full clout And I'm out Hey ladies in the place I'm callin' out to
        ya There never was a city kid truer and bluer There's more to me
        than you'll ever know And I've got more hits than Sadaharu Oh Ton
Thumb Tom Cushman or Tom Foolery Date women on T.V. with the help of Chuck
Woolery Words are flowing out just like the Grand Canyon And I'm always out
looking for a female companion I threw the lasso around the tallest one and
dragged her to the crib I took off her moccasins and put on my bib I'm
wheelin' and dealin' I make a little bit of stealing I'll bring you back to
the place and your dress I'm peeling Your body's on time and your mind is
appealing Staring at the cracks up there upon the ceiling Some such
nonsense is the bass that I'm throwing Talking to a girl telling her I'm
all knowing She's talking to the kid to the who I'm telling here every lie
that you know that I never did Me in the corner with a good looking
daughter I dropped my drawers and it was welcome back Kotter We were
cutting up the rug she started cutting up the carpet In my apartment I
begged her please stop it The gift of gab is the gift that I have And that
girl ain't nothing but the blue plate crab Special at Woodman's in Essex
Mass Educated no stupid yes And when I say stupid I mean stupid fresh I'm
not James at 15 or Chachi in charge I'm Adam and I'm adamant about living
large With the white sassoons and the looks that kill Makin' love in the
back of my Coupe De Ville I met a little cutie she was all hopped up on
zootie I liked the little cutie but I kicked her in the bootie Cause I
don't kinda go for that messin' around You be listening to my records' a
number one sound Step to the rhythm step step to the ride I've got an open
mind so why don't you all get inside Tune in tune on to my tune that's live
Ladies flock like fish to my line She's got a gold tooth you know she's
hardcore She'll show you a good time then she'll show you the door Break up
with your girl it ended in tears Vincent Van Gogh and mail that ear I call
her in the middle of the night when I'm drinking The phone booth on the
[Image] corner is damp and it's stinking She said come on over it was me
that she missed I threw that trash can through her window cause you know I
got dissed Your old lady left you and you went girls (x3) insane You blew
yourself up in the back of the 6 train Take my advice at any price a
gorilla like your mother is mighty weak Sucking down pints till I didn't
know Woke up in the morning at the Won Ton Ho Cause I announce I like girls
that bounce With the weight that pays about a pound per ounce Girls with
curls and big long locks And beatnik chicks just wearing their smocks
Walking high and mighty like she's #1 and *She thinks she's the passionate
one* Rolling down the hill snowballing getting bigger An explosion in the
        chamber the hammer from the trigger I seen him get stabbed I
        watched the blood spill out He had more cuts than my man Chuck
Chillout 24 is my age 22 is my gauge Writing rhymes on a page going off in
a rage Out on a mission a stolen car mission Had a little problem with the
transmission 3 on the tree in the middle of the night I have this steak on
my head cause I got into a fist fight Life comes in phases take the good
with the bad You bought those coins on the street and you got had It's all
high spirit you know you gotta hear it Don't touch the mic baby don't come
near it It's gonna get you it's gonna get you It's gonna get you girl it's
gonna get you Looking down the barrel of a gun Son of a gun son of a bitch
Getting paid getting rich Ultra violence running through my head Fuzzy
navel y'all making me see red Rapid fire Louie like Rambo got bullets I'm a
gonna die harder like my kid Bruce Willis Drummond I love girlies waxing
and milking Got more excuses than my man Dave Scilkin Predetermined destiny
is who I am You got your finger on the trigger like the Son of Sam I am
Like Clockwork Orange going off on the town I've got posse bonanza to beat
your ass down I'm mad at my desk and I'm writing all curse words Expressing
my aggressions through my schizophrenic verse words You're a headless
chicken chasin' a sucker free basin Looking for a fist to put your face in
Get hip don't slip knuckle heads Racism is schism on the serious tip Some
static started in the pool hall In a motherfucker's face with the
cue ball Then I met this girl she tried to gank me So I smacked her
in the pocket with M.C. Plank Bee Me and my crew out breaking windows The
bingo the lotto you know I'll never win those Possession is half the law I
had my routines before all y'all Your whole life is coming apart at the
seams You ain't nothing but a car thief biting routines I'm a city slicker
I ain't no townie Right now I wish I had another hash brownie Like Ricky
always said you've got to toke and pass Or Mookie's gonna kick your fuckin'
ass You try to take what isn't yours like a God damn rat *See personally I
wouldn't want to go out like that* I'm a writer a poet a genius I know it I
don't buy cheeba I grow it *I'm a farmer* people always trying to get next
to me But I'm down with Jalil Donkey and Ecstasy Smoked up a bag of
elephant tranquilizer Because I had to deal with a money hungry miser Had a
caine filled Kool with my man Rush Rush Saw my teeth fall in the sink when
I started to brush You be doing nose candy on the Bowie Coke Mirror My girl
asked for some but I pretended not to hear her You can't deny me you always
want to try me You're just gonna get your ass kicked Homeboy throw in the
towel Your girl got dicked by Ricky Powell The Godfather of Soul is in the
belly of the beast For smoking that dust at St. Anthony's Feast Sometimes
you've got to let someone trip on their own shoelace before you tell them
to tie their shoe All the wife beaters and all the tax cheaters Sitting in
the White House pulling their peters Buy me cheeba from the cop down the
street The only cop with a rope chain walking the beat Like a sneaky pouch
time bomb tickin' Like the beat to my rhyme just kickin' Space cake cookies
I discover who I am I'm a dusted old bummy Hurdy Gurdy Man Five-O caught me
now I'm going to the mountains Said good-bye to my girl my lawyers and
accountants My mind is kinda rhymin and I think I oughta think So I'm
rockin all the rhymes and I'll have another drink So the lights are
flashing my mind is spinning I feel like it is always the beginning Of
another rhyme I'm rapping M.C.'ing I rock You ain't nothing but a car thief
who must be stopped Soft overripe fresh skeezed California females With
3-inch cherry red press-on Lee nails Reach into my mind for the
rhymes I'm seeking Like a garbage bag full overflowing now it's
leaking Rapunzel Rapunzel let down your hair So I can climb up and get into
your underwear Rat soup eating test cheating no business punk You're
insecure born in the junkyard with the junk You've gone wet look crazy and
messed with your head You fucked around and wound up with the bald skin
head You're all mixed up like pasta primavera Why'd you throw that chair at
Geraldo Rivera Cause one man's ceiling is another man's floor So get that
money out of your ass you whore I brought her upstairs onto the roof I
dogged your wife and she is a doofus Clean B cleaning the G spot you know
that we've got Dolemite's house and you have not Look out my window look
over the city With two black eyes your girl ain't that pretty Why you wanna
beat that brat with a bat Why you wanna beat your girl like that Living in
the rat race smoking rat weed You reap what you sow when you plant the seed
Bum cheese on rye with ham and prosciutto Got more Louie than Phil Rizzuto
Riddle me this brother can you handle it Your style to my style you
can't hold a candle to it Equinox symmetry and the balance is right
Smokin' and drinkin' on a Tuesday night It's not how you play the game it's
how you win it I cheat and steal and sin and I'm a cynic For those about to
rock we salute you The dirty thoughts for dirty minds we contribute to I
once was lost but now I'm found The music washes over and you're one with
the sound Who shall inherit the earth the meek shall I think I'm starting
to peak now Al From S.S. Decontrol and the man upstairs I hope that he
cares If I had a penny for my thoughts I'd be a millionaire We're just 3
M.C.'s and we're on the go SHADRACH MESACH ABEDNAGO Only 24 hours in a day
Only 12 notes a man can play Music for all and not just one people And now
we're gonna bust with the Putney Swope sequel More Adidas sneakers that a
plumber got pliers Got more suites that Jacoby & Meyers If not for my vices
my bugged out desires My year would be good just like Goodyear's tires So
I'm out pickin' pockets at the Atlantic Antic And nobody wants to hear you
cause your rhymes are so frantic I mix business with pleasure way too much
I mean wine and women and song and such I don't get blue I gotta mean red
streak You don't pay the band your friends and that's weak Get even like
Steven like pulling a Rambo SHADRACH MESACH ABEDNAGO Steal from the rich
and I'm out robbing banks Give to the poor and I always give thanks Got
more stories that J.D. Salinger I hold the title and you are the challenger
I've got money like Charles Dickens Got the girlies in the Couple like the
Colonel's got the chickens Always go out dapper like Harry S. Truman I'm
madder than Mad's Alfred E. Newman *Never gonna let them say that I don't
love you* My noggin is hoggin all kinds of thoughts Adam Yoggin is Yauch
and he's rockin of course Smoke the holy chalice got my own religion Rally
round the stage and check the funky dope musicians Jerry Lee Swaggert or
Jerry Lee Falwell You love Mario Andretti cause he always drives his car
well Vicious circle of reality since the day you were born And we love the
hot butter on what the popcorn Sippin on wine and mackin Rockin on the
stage with all the hands clappin Ride the wave of fate it don't ride me
*Being very proud to be an M.C.* And the man upstairs I hope that he cares
If I had a penny for my thoughts I'd be a millionaire Amps and crossovers
under my rear hood The bass is bumpin from the back of my Fleetwood
Brougham D'Elegance They tell us what to do hell no SHADRACH MESACH
ABEDNAGO [Image] [Image] Get on the mic Mike let's be real and don't cloud
        the issue The rhymes are rope an M.C. you must listen to People say
        that they been missin' me and missin' you Get on the mic and let's
show them like we used to You say fuck that I say fuck this The king
Ad-Whammy has never been limp Dick Butkus One half science and the other
half soul His name's Mike D. not Fat Morton Jelly Roll M.C. Busy Le Disco
fooled around in Fresno Got over on your girl cause you know she never says
no Well Mike D. is a special individual Pulling out knots pulling in
residuals Go to the movies get the Rolos the cholos riding slow and low
Mike on the mic and bust with the solo Mike my stromy don't be so selfish
Get on the mic cause you know you eat shellfish It's 4:00 a.m. I've got the
Dr. Hfuhruhurr Ale I've got nothing to lose so I'm pissin' on the
third rail Groggy eyed and fried I'm headed for the station D-Train
ride Coney Island vacation Dedicated to the boofers in the back of the 1
train They'll be kicking out windows high on cocaine Jump the turnstyle I
lost my last token Riding between the cars pissing smoking Also finger
popping Two bums fucking I seen them rocking Head for the last car
fluorescent light blackout Policeman told my homeboy put that crack out You
know you light up when the lights go down Read the New York Post Fulton St.
downtown Same faces every day but you don't know their names Party people
going placed on the D-Train French trench coat wing tip going to work
Pulling a train like Captain Kirk Pick pocket gangsters paying their debts
Caught a bullet in the lung from Bernie Goetz Overworked and underpaid
staring at the floor Prostitutes spandex caught in the ding dong doors
Stuck between the stations it seems like an eternity Sweating like sardines
in a flophouse fraternity $50.00 fine for disturbing the peace The neck
tortoise the Lees creased Hot cup of coffee and the donuts are Dunkin
Friday night and Jamaica Queens funkin Elevated platform never gonna
conform Riding over the diner where I always get my toast warm Bust into
the conductor's booth and busted out rhymes Over the loud speaker about the
hard times Sat across from a man readin El Diario Riding the train down
from El Barrio Went from the station straight to Orange Julius Bought a hot
dog from my man George Drakoulias M.C. for what I AM and do the A is for
Adam and the lyrics; true so as pray and hope and the message is
sent and I AM living in the dreams that I have dreamt because I'm
down with the three the unstoppable three me and Adam and D. were born to
M.C. and my body and soul and mind are pure not polluted or diluted or
damaged beyond cure just lyrics from I to you recited arrested, bailed but
cuffed and indicted enter the arena as I take center stage the lights set
low and the night has come of age take the microphone in hand as that I am
a professional speak my knowledge to the crowd and the ed. is special for I
AM a bard but not the last one I'm my own king and this is my castle dwell
in realms of now but vidi those of the past seen a glimpse from ahead and I
don't think it's gonna last and you can bet your ass I drop the L. when I'm
skiing I'm smoking and peaking I put the skis on the roof almost every
single weekend can't stop the mindfuck when it's rolling along can't stop
the smooth runnin's when the shit's running strong broke my bindings the
lion with wings preaching his word in the B. Boy sing I AM one with myself
as I turn to The I prefer the dreams to reality I prefer my life don't need
no other man's wife don't need no crazy lifestyle with stress and strife
but it's good to have turn to be a king for a day or for a week or for a
year or for a year in a day come what may I'm fishing with my boat and I'm
fishing for trout mix the Bass Ale with the Guiness Stout fishing for a
line inside my brain and looking out at the world through my window pane
every day has many colors cuz the glass is stained everything has changed
but remains the same so once again the mirror raised and I see myself as
clear as day and I AM going to the limits of my ultimate destiny feeling as
though Somebody were testing me He who sees the end from the beginning of
time looking forward through all the ages is, was and always shall be check
the prophetic sections of the pages He goes by the name of Disco Dave New
        York New York it's a hell of a town The Bronx is up and I'm
        Brooklyn down They don't know my name they only know my initials
Building bombs in the attic for elected officials I quit my job I cut my
hair I cut my boss cause I don't care You tried to get slick you bust a
little chuckle You're gonna get smacked with my gold finger knuckle Cause
being as fly as me is something you never thought of You'll be sticking up
old ladies with the hand gun or the sawed-off Like a buffalo soldier I'm
broader than Broadway Keep keepin' on I don't care what they say I play my
stereo loud it disturbs my neighbors I want to enjoy the fruits of my labor
I am the holder of the 3-pack Bonanza If you open the book then you will
get your hand slapped I am the keeper of the 3-pack Bonanza If you ask a
question you will get the answer Her breast I saw I reached I felt
M.O.N.E.Y. the belt I stay at home just like a hermit I got the jammy but I
don't got the permit Yes you got a boyfriend and indeed his name is Slick
Nick that is why Annabelle you're caught with the shrimpy limp dick trick I
ride around town cause my ride is fly I shot a man in Brooklyn *just to
watch him die* He thrusts his fists against the post and still insists he
        sees a ghost She's slippin through his fingers as she's movin' out
        to the coast If your world was all black and if your world was all
white Then you wouldn't get much color out of life now right Nicknamed
Shamrock my name is not Shamus Girlies on the tippy cause my homie is
famous My name is not O'Houigheighi Norisit Brian If I said that I was weak
you know I'd be lyin' Suckers try to bite they try to pursue it *If you
explain to a musician he'll tell that he knows it but he just can't do it*
        Chinese eyes and Chinese suits Smokin' much Buddha and smokin' much
        boots More updated on the hip-hop lingo My favorite New York Knick
was Hawthorne Wingo Met a girl at a party and I gave her my card You know
that it said Napoleon Bonaparte Peepin' out the colors I be buggin' on
Cezanne They call me Mike D Joe Blow the Lover Man Your face turns red as
your glass of wine You spilled on my lyrics as you wasted my time Girl you
should be with me you should drop that bum Cause I got more flavor than
Fruit Striped Gum With that big round butt of yours I'd like to butter your
muffin I'm not bluffin' Serve you on a platter like Thanksgiving stuffin' I
        met this girl last night with a peculiar cackle I laid the bait and
        then she took the tackle Had too much to drink at the Red Lobster
Now the room is spinning around like the blades of a helicopter I never met
a girl that was too finicky If the press has their way then they're going
to finish me You might know this but you've never been this see If I ate
spinach then I'd be called Spinach D I shed light like cats shed fur Ride
around town like Raymond Burr I'm so high that they call me Your Highness
If you don't know me then pardon my shyness I live in the Village wherever
I go I walk to Keepin' my friends around so I have someone to talk to I
play my music loud because you know it's got clout to it It's a trip it's
got a funky beat and I can bug out to it
        --------------------------------------------------------------------
        Lyrics originally transcribed by Chris Hilker. Edited and converted
to hypertext by Ian Rogers.
        
--------------------------------------------------------------------
Check Your Head

Jimmy James (Beastie Boys/Caldato)

People How You Doing There's A New Day Dawning
For The Earth Mother It's A Brand New Morning
For Such A Long While There's Been Such A Longing
But Now The Sun Is Shining Let's Roll Back The Awning

This Is A Type Of Kinda Like A Formal Dedication Giving Out A Shout
For Much Inspiration All I Ever Really Want To Do Is Get Nice
Get Loose And Goof My Little Slice Of Life Sendin' Out Love To All
Corners Of The Land Jump Up On The Stage And Take The Mic
In My Hand Not Playin' The Roll Just Being Who I Am
And If You Try To Dis Me I Couldn't Give A Damn 'Cause I'm Rockin'

Bass From The Back Of My Car Feels Soothing Right Bazookas
Is What I'm Using I'm Mike D And It's Been Proven I Love It
When I See The Party People Get Movin' Strapped On The Bar Goggles
And What Did I See But The Music Brought The People Into Harmony

Funky Boss (Beastie Boys/Nishita)

Funky Boss Get Off My Back

Pass The Mic (Beastie Boys/Caldato)

If You Can Feel What I'm Feeling Then It's A Musical Masterpiece
But If You Can Hear What I'm Dealing With Then That's Cool At Least
What's Running Through My Mind Comes Through In My Walk True
Feelings Are Shown From The Way That I Talk And This Is Me, Y'All-
I M.C., Y'All My Name Is M.C.A. And I Still Do What I Please And
Now I'd Like To Introduce I'll Pass The Mic To D. For A Fist Full Of Truth

The Name Is D., Y'All And I Don't Pay And I Can Rock A Block Party
'Til Your Hair Turns Grey "So, What You Sayin'?" I Explode On Site
And Like Jimmy Walker I'm "Dynomite" And Now I'd Like To Pass
The Mic So Adrock C'mon And Do Anything You Like

I'm The A.D.R.O.C.K. In The Place With The Bass I'm Going
All The Way I Can't Stop Y'All Tick Tock Y'All And If You Think
That You're Slick You'll Catch A Brick Y'All 'Cause I'm A Turn It In
And I'm A Turn It Out But For Now I've Got To Pass The Mic To Yauch

Well On And On And On And On I Can't Stop Y'All 'Til The Early Morn'
So Rock Rock Y'All Tick Tock Y'All To The Beat Y'All
C'mon And Rock Y'All

I Give Thanks For Inspiration It Guides My Mind Along The Way
A Lot Of People Get Jealous, They're Talking About Me
But That's Just 'Cause They Haven't Got A Thing To Say

Everybody's Rapping Like It's A Commercial Actin' Like Life Is A
Big Commercial So This Is What I've Got To Say To You All Be True To
Yourself And You Will Never Fall And Now I'd Like To Pass The Mic To

The A So What's Your Name, Yauch? My Name Is M.C.A. I've Been
Coming To Where I Am From The Get Go Find That I Can Groove
With The Beat When I Let Go So Put Your Worries On Hold Get Up
And Groove With The Rhythm In Your Soul And Now I'd Like To
Pass The Mic To My Brother Adrock C'mon And Shine Like A Light

Yes Yes Y'All And Yes Yes Y'All I'm Always On Time Never The Less
Y'All And That's Right Y'All, I Shed Light Y'All I've Got No Time In
My Life To Get Uptight Y'All So What You Gonna Say That I Don't
Know Already? I'm Like Clyde And I'm Rockin' Steady But Time Flies
When You're Having Fun So Mike D C'mon And Get Some

M.I.K.E. To The D. You Come And See Me And You Pay A Fee Do What I
Do Professionally To Tell The Truth I Am Exactly What I Want To Be
Now Ad-Rock And M.C.A. Let's Rock This Joint In The Old School Way

Well I'm On 'Til The Crack Of Dawn Mowing Down M.C.'s
Like I'm Mowing A Lawn I Go Off Like Nothing Can Phase Me
You Think We'll Ever Meet Stevie? One Of These Days, D.
But I Can Stand My Ground And I Am Down To Wax An M.C.
Who Acts Like A Clown But For Now, I'd Like To Ask You
How You Like The Feel Of The Bass In Your Face In The Crowd

Gratitude (Beastie Boys/Cushman)

Good Times Gone But You Missed Them What's Gone Wrong In
Your System Things They Bounce Just Like A Spaulding What'd
You Think Did You Miss Your Calling It's So Free This Kind Of Feeling
It's Like Life It's So Appealing When You've Got So Much To Say
It's Called Gratitude

Good Times Gone But You Feed It Hate's Grown Strong
You Feel You Need It Just One Thing Do You Know What You Think
That The World Owes You What's Gonna Set You Free Look Inside
And You'll See When You've Got So Much To Say It's Called Gratitude

Lighten Up (Beastie Boys/Nishita)

Lighten Up Shine Like The Sun

Finger Lickin' Good (Beastie Boys/Caldato/Fite/Hill)

So Mike D What's Up? Yo Yauch What's Up? Come On Mike Let's
Tear It Up Hear No Evil See No Evil Talking No Bullshit So Many
Damn People Are So Damn Full Of It Keyboard Money Mark You
Know He's Not Having It Just Give Him Some Wood And He'll Build
You A Cabinet I'm Convinced That Vince Is Ripping Me Off I Think It's
His Girdle That's Tipping Me Off Mike D's Out Back And He's Growing
Onions I've Got Bigger Buns Than My Man Paul Bunyon's I've Been
Going Nuts Gettin' All Cooped Up Fully Hermitizing But Now I'm
Getting Souped Up It's Time To Turn The Page To A Brand New
Chapter Setting My Sights And You Know What I'm After I'll Be In
The Paper The News With Ernie Ernesto They'll Even Print My
Recipe For Pasta With Pesto Now Here's Another Special Of The Day
I've Got More Spice Than The Frugal Gourmet

Well Mike D What Got For Me Show These Good People What It
Means To Be D Well They Call Me Mike D With The Mad Man Style I Put
The Mic Up To My Lips And I Can Scream For A While Created A Sound
At Which Many Were Shocked I've Got A Million Ideas That I Ain't
Even Rocked I've Got The Light Bulb Flashing At The Top Of My Head
Never Wake Up On The Wrong Side Of The Bed You're An Idea Man
Not A Yes Man With A Point To Make You're Bound To Take A Stand
'Cause I'm Pete The Puma Minnie The Moocher Got Every Type Of
Flavor That Will Suit Ya You Know The Bass Is Real Fat Because It's
Gotta Be Like That A Snare On The Funky Tin And A Taste Of The High Hat

Yo Yauch What's Up? Mike D What's Up? Come On Yauch, Let's Tear
It Up I Could Catch A Groove Like A Flash In The Dark Grab A Hold Of
Your Attention Like A Thief In The Park 'Cause I Can Flip A Rhyme
Off The Tip Of My Tongue Switching Up The Rhythm Like The
Rhyme's A Piece Of Chewing Gum Now I Might Chew But I Don't Bite
My Ideas Are Mine When I Begin To Write In My Sleep I'll Be Thinking
'Bout Beats And Getting On The Mic And Busting Some Treats And
Sporting The Crazy Funky Threads That You've Never Even Seen
Before What I'm Lacking From The Macking I Can Find At The Thrift
Store I Won't Scuff Nor Scuffle Just Grin As They Walk By Take Time
To Rhyme For A Girl I Hear Talk Fly Down Some Papaya
Down With The Revolution Always Wear My Goggles 'Cause There's
So Much Pollution I Can Do The Freak, The Patty Duke And The Spank
Gotta Free The Funky Fish From The Funky Fish Tanks
I'll Sell My House, Sell My Car And I'll Sell All My Stuff
"I'm Going Back To New York City I Do Believe I've Had Enough"

So What'cha Want (Beastie Boys)

Just Plug Me In Just Like I Was Eddie Harris You're Eating Crazy
Cheese Like You'd Think I'm From Paris You Know I Get Fly You
Think I Get High You Know That I'm Gone And I'm A Tell You All Why
So Tell Me Who Are You Dissing Maybe I'm Missing The Reason That
You're Smiling or Wilding So Listen In My Head I Just Want To
Take 'em Down Imagination Set Loose And I'm Gonna Shake 'em
Down Let It Flow Like A Mud Slide When I Get On I Like To Ride And
Glide I've Got Depth Of Perception In My Text Y'all I Get Props At My
Mention 'Cause I Vex Y'All So What'cha Want You're So Funny With
The Money That You Flaunt Where'd You Get Your Information
From You Think That You Can Front When Revelation Comes

You Can't Front On That

Well They Call Me Mike D The Ever Loving Man I'm Like Spoonie Gee
I'm The Metropolitician You Scream And You Holler About My
Chevy Impala But The Sweat Is Getting Wet Around The Ring Around
Your Collar But Like A Dream I'm Flowing Without No Stopping
Sweeter Than A Cherry Pie With Ready Whip Topping Goin' From
Mic To Mic Kickin' It Wall To Wall Well I'll Be Calling Out You People
Like A Casting Call It's Wack When You're Jacked In The Back Of A
Ride With Your Know With Your Flow When You're Out Getting By
Believe Me What You See Is What You Get And You See Me Coming Off
As You Can Bet I Think I'm Losing My Mind This Time
This Time I'm Losing My Mind

You Can't Front On That

But Little Do You Know About Something That I Talk About I'm Tired
Of Driving It's Due Time That I Walk About But In The Meantime, I'm
Wise To The Demise I've Got Eyes In The Back Of My Head So I Realize
Well I'm Dr. Spock I'm Here To Rock Y'All I Want You Off The Wall
If You're Playing The Wall So What'cha Want Y'All Suckers Write Me
Checks And Then They Bounce So I Reach In My Pocket For The
Fresh Amount See I'm The Long Leaner Victor The Cleaner
I'm The Illest Motherfucker From Here To Gardena I'm As Cool As A
Cucumber In A Bowl Of Hot Sauce You've Got The Rhyme And Reason
But No Cause So If You're Hot To Trot You Think You're Slicker
Than Grease I've Got News For You Crews
You'll Be Sucking Like A Leach

You Can't Front On That
So What'cha Want

The Bis Vs. The Nuge (The Grand Imperial Dr. Marcell Hall/Ted Nugent)

The Beatsie Boys They Are They're Comin' Home
They're Comin' Home They're Comin' Home
Oh They're Comin' Home

Time For Livin' (Sylvester Stewart/Frontline)

Yeah, that's right
It's time to set the record straight

Ain't nobody got to spell it for me
Ain't nobody got to yell I can see
Ain't nobody got the pain I can hear
But if I have to I'll yell in your ear

Time for living
Time for giving (x4)

Ain't nobody to to spell it for me
I said ain't nobody got to yell I can see
I said ain't nobody got the pain I can hear
But if I have to I will yell in your ear

Soul fire
Soul fire
And we ain't got no water
We don't have no water

Time for living time for giving
No time for making up a monster to sell
Time for living time for giving
No time for breakin' out a lie to sell

Something's Got To Give (Beastie Boys/Caldato/Nishita)

I Wish For Peace Between The Races Someday We Shall All Be One
Why Fight Yourself This One's Called Rectify There's Something
Coming To The Surface There's Fire All Around But This Is An Illusion

I've Seen Better Days Than This One I've Seen Better Nights Than
This One Tension Is Rebuilding Something's Got To Give

Someday We Shall All Be One

Jesus Christ We're Nice
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
[Image]

---------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Blue Nun (Beastie Boys)

(Instrumental)

Stand Together (Beastie Boys/Caldato)

I don't see things quite the same as I used to
As I live my life I've got just me to be true to
And when I find that I don't know about
Just what to do
I turn and look within to see what I should do
Now I'm not sure what it takes to be hip
A lot of people making music that to be ain't shit
So I ask creation
For rhymes for this jam
Gimme lickle solo and I'll take the mic stand

Love vibe

As the earth spins into brand new day
I see the light on the horizons's not fading away
Gonna shine from within like a bright white sun
No need to hide and no place to run
Got the vibrations of the music
Bringing light to your mind
So you can move and groove
And feel the beat of the time
Sense the power in the air as it starts to move
You get a real good feeling that you just can't lose

Contemplation time, intuition time
Evolution time, resolution time

Free your mind it's time for good times
And let yourself move it's a time to shine
Spread your wings in the sky, feelin' good inside
Breaking fool with no need to hide
I got the music cuttin' throught me
Takin' control of my soul
I can't hold back I've got to let go

Stand together people come together now
It's about time we've got to get together y'all

Pow (Beastie Boys/Nishita)

Pow

The Maestro (Beastie Boys)

Who is the man coming down your block
It's me you see with the funk in my walk
'Cause I'm doin' just what I like to
Today is my day and I'm a get nice too
You gotta keep movin' and you can't say nothing
I'm a keep bouncin' and bumpin' and stuffin'
One thing you ought to know---I am the maestro

(Speech)

I feel like Rufus Thomas
The crown prince of dance
I'm Mike D and I'm known for romance
I'm the crazy baldhead with the part on the side
And I'm riding down the block
Like I'm on a water slide
'Cause it's the type of day
I feel like pressing my luck
'Cause I got nothing to lose
'Cause I don't give a fuck
See I'm a player I play
Don't play to win I play to show
I am the maestro!

(Routine, then speech)
Who is the man.

Groove Holmes (Beastie Boys/Nishita)

(Instrumental)

Live At P.J.'s (Beastie Boys/Nishita)

Well,
Back to the beat y'all,
Down with the sound so sweet y'all
Just how fresh can you get y'all
Those that are blessed say yes y'all
'Cause I'm a come inside and do my thing
I'm gonna take off my drawers and let myself swing
Tantalize my tummy with a boo boo snack
But now I got to get back

Gonna break it down to the nitty grit
Gonna tell you motherfuckers
Why you ain't shit
'Cause suckers like you
Just make me strong
When you're popping that bullshit all day long

I'm gonna bust my shoes I'm gonna bust my socks
I'm gonna spread my word
>From standing on this box
This drive through world it just ain't right
Gonna run to Joe and Tony's
And get my hair cut nice

Well come on y'all and let's work it out
I'm trying to get up
So don't you get me down
Life I love you now give me a pound
Up from the frying pan into the fire
Look within and try to admire what's going on

Mark On The Bus (Nishita)

I Ride On The Bus Into The City Everyday
I Sit On My Seat And I Dream Myself Away
I Dream I'm On An Island With That Foxy Lady Too
But When I Awaken I Must Be Mistaken I'm On Third Avenue
Won't You Take Me Away And Take Away Me

Professor Booty (Beastie Boys/Caldato)

Well, I got more bounce to the fuckin' bump
And then you want to know
Why it's cause I'm motherfuckin' truckin'
I'm in the pocket just like Grady Tate
I got supplies of beats so you don't have to wait
'Cause I'm the master blaster
Drinking up the shasta
My voice sounds sweet 'cause it has to
So light a match to my ass 'cause I'm blown up
I'd like to thank the people for just showin' up
But now I want y'all to move it
Put your point on the floor and just prove it
And I'm smurfin not rehearsin' gettin' live y'all
A little puffy so you know what I'm doin' right
'Cause that's the kind of frame of mind I'm in
I got a feelin' that's back again
So don't touch me 'cause I'm electric
And if you touch me you'll get shocked!

You've got the boomin' system
But it's blasting out doo-doo
You think it's chocolate milk
But it's watered down yoo-hoo
I've been through many times
In which I thought I might lose it
The only thing that saved me
Has always been music
We've got our own studio the son of the G
It's no question life's been good to me
'Cause life ain't nothing but a good groove
A good mix tape to put you in the right mood
This one goes out to my man the Groove Merchant
Coming through with beats
For which I've been searching
Like two sealed copies of expansions
I'm like Tom Vu with yachts and mansions
The logo I sport is the face of the monkey
Union made Ben Davis quality it's no junk see
My chrome is shining just like an icicle
I ride around town on my low-rider bicycle.

So many wack M.C.'s
You get the T.V. bozack
Ain't even gonna call out your names
'Cause you're so wack
But one big oaf whose faker than plastic
A dictionary definition of the word spastic
You should have never started something
That you couldn't finish
'Cause writin' rhymes to me
Is like Popeye to spinach
I'm bad ass move your fat ass
'Cause you're wack son
Dancin' around like you think you're Janet Jackson
Thought you could walk on me
To get some ground to walk on
I'll put the rug out under your ass
As I talk on
I'll take you out like a sniper on a roof
Like an M.C. at the fever in the D.J. booth
With your headphones strapped
You're rockin' rewind pause
Tryin' to figure out what you can do to go for yours
But liek the pencil to the paper I got more to come
One after another you can all get some
So you getter take your time
And meditate on your rhyme
'Cause your shit'll be stinking
When I go for mine
And that's right y'all don't get uptight y'all
You can't say shit
Because you're biting what I write y'all
And that's wrong y'all over the long haul
You can't cut the mustard
When you're fronting it all

In 3's (Beastie Boys/Nishita)

(Instrumental)

Namaste (Beastie Boys/Nishita)

A butterfly floats on the breeze of a sun lit day
As I feel this reality gently fade away
Riding on a thought to see where it's from
Gliding through a memory of a time yet to come
Smoke paints the air
Swirling images through my mind
Like a whirlpool spin beginning to unwind
And I stand at the edge cautiously awaiting
As time slips by
Carefully navigating by the stars in the sky
And I sit
And I think to myself
And on the horizon the sun light begins to climb
And it seems like it's been so long since he shined
But I'm sure it was only yesterday

A cold chill of fear cut through me
I felt my heart contract
To my mind I brought the image of light
And I expanded out of it
My fear was just a shadow
And then I voice spoke in my head
And she said dark is not the opposite of light
It's the absence of light
And I thought to myself
She knows what she's talking about
And for a moment I know
What it was all about.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
Lyrics origionally transcribed by unknown, Daniel Ejderberg and David
Sklar. Edited and converted to html by
Daniel Ejderberg d92-dej@nada.kth.se


---------------------------------------------------------------------------
Ill Communication

Sure Shot (Beastie Boys/DJ Hurricane/Caldato)

You Can't, You Won't And You Don't Stop
Mike D Come On And Rock The Sure Shot

I've Got The Brand New Doo-Doo Guaranteed
Like Yoo Hoo
I'm On Like Dr John, Yea Mr Zu Zu
I'm A Newlywed, Not A Divorcee
And Everything I Do Is Funky Like Lee Dorsey
Well, It's The Taking Fo Pelham, One, Two, Three
If You Want A Doodoo Rhyme Then Come See Me
I've Got The Savior Faire With The Unique Rhyme
And
I Keep It On And On, It's Never Quitting Time And
Strictly Hand Held Is The Style I Go
Never Rock The Mice With The Panty Hose
I Strap On My Ear Goggles And I'm Ready To Go
'Couse At The Boards Is The Man They Call The
Mario
Pull Up At The Function And You Know I Kojak
To All The Party People That Are On My Bozak
I've Got More Action Than My Man John Woo
And I've Got Mad Hits Like I Was Rod Crew

You Can't, You Won't And You Don't Stop
Ad Rock Come And Rock The Sure Shot

Hurricane Will Cross Fade On Your Ass And
Bust Your Ear Drums
Listen Everybody 'Couse I'm Shifting Gears I'm
Fresh Like Dougie When I Set My Specs And
On The Microphone I Come Correct
Timing Like A Clock When I'Rock The Hip Hop
Top Notch Is My Stock On The Soap Box
Ive Got More Rhymes Than I'v Got Grey Hairs
And That's Alot Because I've Got My Share
I've Got A Hole In My Head And There's No One
To Fix It
Got To Straighten My Thoughts, I'm Thinking Too
Much Sick Shit
Everyone Just Takes and Takes, Takes, Takes,
Takes
I've Got To Step Back, I've Got To Contemplate
I'm Like Lee Perry, I'm Very
On Rock The Microphone And Then I'm Gone
I'm Like Vaughn bode, I'm a Cheech Wizard
Never Quitting, So Won't You Listen

Oh Yes Indeed, It's Fun Time
'Cause You Can't, You Won't And You Don't Stop
MCA Come And Rock The Sure Shot

I Want To Say a Little Something That's Long
Overdue
The Disrespect To Women Has Got To Be Through
To All The Mothers And Sisters A And Ahe
Wives And Friends
I Want To Offer My Love And Respect To The
End
Well You Say Im Twenty Something And Should
Be Slacking
But Im Working Harder Than Ever And You Could
Call It Macking
So Im Supposed To Sit Upon My Couch Watching My
T.V.
I'm Still Iistening To Wax, I'm Not Using The CD
I'm That Kid In The Corner
All Fucked Up And I Wanna So I'm Gonna
Take A Piece Of The Pie, Why Not, I'm Not Quitting
Think I'm Gonna Change Up My Style Just To Fit In
I Keep My Underwear Up With A Piece Of Elastic
I Use A Bullshit Mic That's Made Out Of Plastic
To Send My Rhymes Out To All Nations
Like Ma Bell, I've Got The Ill Communications

(Chorus)

Tough Guy (Beastie Boys/Smith)

Butcher Me On The Court
Too Many Elbows To Report
Now You're Poking Me In The Eye
Bill Laimbeer Motherfucker, It's Time For You To Die

Tough Guy, It's Time To Check Yourself
Dribbling The Ball Like The Biz Can Be Bad
For Your Health
Tough Guy, What You Got To Prove
Moving Like An Elephant, That's Your Favorite
Tough Guy, Your Shit Is Going Out

Tough Guy

Box Me Out With Your Fat Ass
Throw Me Around Like A Bounce Pass
You've Got A Tombstone Hanging Over Your Dick
Cause A Minor Earthquake When You Throw A Moving Pick

Touch Guy, You Think You're Like The Shaq
Keep Running Around, You'll Catch A Heart Attack
Tough Guy, What Are You Giving Me
The Way You're Playing Ball, You'll Stop Me From Living B

Tough Guy, Tough Guy
Tough Guy, You're Shit Is Weak
Tough Guy, You Fucking Freak
Tough Guy, I'll Stick I'll Stick Your Shit
Tough Guy

B-Boys Makin With The Freak Freak (Beastie Boys)

Putting Song Together Ain't No Puzzle Like Yahtzee
Sending This Out To K-Rob And Rahmalzee
Let Me Introduce Myself On This Cut
I'm Ad Rock, I'm Lit Like A Motherfuck
Well, I'm Brewing Up Rhymes Like I Was Using A Still
I've Got An Old School Flow Like Mike McGill
'Cause Yauch's On The Upright, The Shit Just Ain't Funny
Got Fat Bass Lines Like Russel Simmons Steals Money
Got Clientele, You Know I Rock Well
And Then You're On My Dick Because I'm D.F.L.
Yeah, Mike 'Cause Playing The Bass Is My Favorite Shit
I Might Be A Hack On The Stand Up But I'm Working At It
I Get My Hair Cut Correct Like Anthony Mason
Then I Ride The I.R.T. Right Up To Penn Station
Penn Station Up On 8th Ave.
Listen All Y'all You get The Ball Bath
He's Got The Savior Faire Because He's Debonair
Mike D With The Vinyl With The Grooves So Rare
And The Rhymes That We're Are Doo Doo

Been Makin' With The Freak Freak, So Unique
Been Learning From The Elders Now It's Time To Speak
Oh That Shit Sounds Nice
Mike D Come On And Get It On Y'all
Talking Shit About A Mile A Minute
Put The Wax On The Table And Let The D.J. Spin It
Excuse Me Motherfuckers, Can I Beg Your Pardon
I'm Gonna See The Knicks At Madison Square Garden
And Like The Knicks I Got Game Like I Worked At Hasbro
On The Mic I Bug, Like I Was Prince Jazzbo
The Rhymes Are Stupid To Make You Go Coo-Coo
You Can't Sleep 'Cause You're Little Cindy Loo Hoo
Down With The Hurra Since The Raising Hell Tour
Just Listen To His Cuts There's No Reason To Tell More
Cyndy What I Didn't Catch The Last One
That Shit Sounded Kinda Nice, But Bust A Fast One
Well I'm Not Known For My Speed Raps
So Grab The Microphone And Cut Out The Claps
Ah Yea, I Like That Shit Is Kind Of Rough
I'll Grab The Microphone And Fuck It Up

I Might Seem Out There, A Little Deranged
I've Got To Cool Off, Catch Me On The Driving Range
Well I'm The Ladies' Choise Like I Was J.J. Evans
Legalize The Weed And I'll Say Thank Heavens
I'm Talking P.G.A. Pro Tour 2
I'm Doctor Beppers In My T.V., In My Golfing Shoes
Pass Me An Iron And I'll Bust A Chip Shot
Then You Throw Me Off The Green Because I'm Strictly Hip-Hop
I'll Grab The Tee, I'll Tee Off
I'll Grab The Golf Clubs And I'm Off, I'm Audi- So Check Me
I've Got The Timbos On My Toes When I'm Not On The Green
I've Got The Costom Made Boots With The Spikey Things
I'm Working On My Driving 'Cause I'm Going Pro
I've Got The Funky Fly Golf Gear From Head To Toe
Yea, The B-Boys Makin' With The Freak Freak
Mario's Nagging Nonni's About The Pesto Pizza
And Then He's On A Mission And He's Checking For Peacha

Bobo On The Corner (Beastie Boys/Bobo/Nishita)

(Instrumental)

Root Down (Beastie Boys)

I Kick My Root Down
I Put My Root Down

It's Not A Put Down
I Put My Foot Down
And Then I Make Some Love, I Put My Root Down
Like Sweetie Pie By The Stone Alliance
Everbody Knows I'm Known For Dropping Science
I'm Electric Like Dick Hyman
I Guess You'd Expect To Catch The Crew Rhymin'
Never Let You Down With The Stereo Sound
So Mike, Get On The Mic And Turn It Out
We're Talking Root Down, I Put My Root Down
And If You Want To Battle Me, You're Putting Loot Down
I Said Root Down, It's Time To Scoot Down
I'm A Step Up To The Mic In My Goose Down
Come Up Representing From The Upper West
Money Makin' Putting Me To The Test
Sometimes I Feel As Though I've Been Blessed
Because I'm Doing What I Want So I Never Rest
Well, I'm Not Coming Out Goofy Like The Fruit Of The Loom Guys
Just Strutting Like The Meters With The Look-ka Py Py
'Cause Downtown Brooklyn Is Where I Was Born
but When The Snow Is Falling, Then I'm Gone
You Might Think That I'm A Fanatic
A Phone Call From Utah And I'm Throwing A Panic
But We Kick It From The Root When We Break It On Down
Jimmy Smith Is My Man, I Want To Give Him A Pound

(Chorus)

Ad Rock Don't Stop, Get On The Mic With The Tic And The Toc
I'll Fill You With The Fuckin' Rim Like Brim
I'm Walking Down Your Block And You Say That's Him
There Goes The Guy With The Funky Sound
The Beastie Boys You Know We Come To Get Down
Because I've Got The Flow Where I Grab My Dick
And Say Oh My God, That's The Funky Shit
So I'm Going To Pass The Mic And Cause A Panic
The Original Nasal Kid Is Doing Damage
Every Morning I Took The Train To High Street Station
Doing Homework On The Train, What A Fucked Up situation
On The Way Back Up Hearing Battle Tapes
Through The Underground, Underneath The Sky Scrapes
Like Harlem World Battles On The Zulu Beat Show
It's Kool Moe D Vs. Busy Bee There's One You Should Know
Enough Of That, I Just Want To Give Some Respect Due
M.C.A. Grab The Mic And The Ma Bell Will Connect You
Bob Marley Was A Prophet For The Freedom Fight
"If Dancin' Prays To The Lord Then I Shall Feel Alright"
It Feels To Play A Little Music
Tears Running Down My Face 'Cause I Love To Do It
And No One Can Stop This Flow From Flowing On
A Flow Master In Disaster With A Sound That's Gone
I'll Give A Little Shout Out To My Dad And Mom
For Bringing Me Into This World And So On

(Chorus)

Sabotage (Beastie Boys)

I Can't Stand It I Know You Planned It
But I'm Gonna Set It Straight, This Watergate
I Can't Stand Rocking When I'm In Here
Because Your Crystal Bal Ain't So Crystal Clear
So While You Sit Backand Wonder Why
I Got This Fucking Thorn In My Side
Oh My, It's A Mirage
I'm Tellin' Y'all It's a Sabotage

So Listen Up 'Cause You Can't Say Nothin'
You'll Shut Me Dow With A Push Of Your Button?
But I'm Out And I'm Gone
I'll Tell You Now I Keep It On And On

'Cause What You See You Might Not Get
And We Can Bet So Don't You Get Souped Yet
You're Scheming On A Thing That's A Mirage
I'm Trying To Tell You Now It's Sabotage
Why; Our Backs Are Now Against The Wall
Listen All Of Y'all It's A Sabotage

I Can't Stand It, I Know You Planned It
But I'm Gonna Set It Straight This Watergate
I Can't Stand Rockin' When I'm In This Place
Because I Feel Disgrace Because You're All In My Face
But Make No Mistakes And Switch Up My Channel
I'm Buddy Rich When I Fly Off The Handle
What Could It Be, It's A Miracle
You're Scheming On A Thing; That's Sabotage

Get It Together (Beastie Boys/J. Davis)

1-2 1-2 Keep It On
Listen To The Shit Because We Kick It Until Dawn
Listen To The Abstract Got It Going On
Listen To The Ladies Come On And Let Me Spawn
All Your Eggs Then You You Go Up The River
Listen To The Abstract That Freaky Nigger
I'm Ad Rock And I Shock And I Tick And I Tock
And I Can't Stop With The Body Rock
See I've Got Heart Like John Starks
Hitting Mad Sparks
Pass Me The Mic
And I'll Be Rocking The Whole Park
I'm The M To The C To The A And It's A Must
The Rhymes That We Bust On The Topic On Lust
And My Moms Is Not Butt, But Fuck It
Let Me Get Down To The Rhythm
Yes I'm Getting Funky And I'm Shooting All My Jism
Like John Holmes, The X-rated Nigger
Listen To The Shit 'Cause I'm The Ill Figure
Nobody's Getting Any Bigger Than This

Ad Rock Down With The Ione
Listen To The Shit Because Both Of Them Is Boney
Got To Do It Like This Like Chachi And Joanie
Because She's The Cheese And I'm The Macaroni
So Why All The Fight And Why All The Fuss
Becasue I Ain't Got No Dust
Yea, You Know I'm Getting Silly
I've Got A Grandma Hazel And A Grandma Tilly
Grand Royalprez And I'm Also A Member
Born On The Cusp In The Month Of November
I Do The Patty Duke In Case You Don't Remember
Well, I Freak A Funky Beat Like The Shit Was In A Blender
Well, I'm Long Gone Word Is Born
Don't Need A Mother Fucking Fool Telling Me Right From Wrong
I Don't Think I'm Slick Nor Do I Play Like I'm Hard
But I Shall Drive The Lane Like I Was Evan Bernhard
And I've Working On My Game Because Life Is Taxing
Got To Get It Together And See What's Happening

I Go One Two Like My Name Was Biz Mark
But I Had To Do The Shit Just Let Me Embark
On The Lyric And The Noun And The Verb
Let's Kick The Shit Off 'Cause Yo, I'm Not The Herb
Well, It's Not The Herb But The Spice With The Flavor To Spare
Tho Moog With The Funk For Your Derriere
While We're On That Topic, Yes I Like To Mention
When It Comes To Boning I'm Representing
Spacing, Zoning, Talkin' On The Phone And
My Brain Is Roaming And I Don't Know Where It's Going
Talking Lots Of Shit A Little Tweaking On The Weekend
I've Got To Get Him By The Reigns Because I Know That I'm Freaking
Well, I'm A Funky Skull And I'm A Scorpio
And When I Get My Flow I'm Dr On The Go
So Q-tip, What You On The Mic For
Because I Had To Talk About The Times That I Rhyme
And When M.C.S Come In My Face, I'm Like Mace
Because I Back Them Off With The Quills
Nigger 'Cause I Tell You, Nigger 'Cause I'll Keep You Under Prills
Resting On Nine One One Sixteenth Ave Off The Farmes Boulevard
I'm From Manhattan M.C.A.'s From Brooklyn
Yea, M.C.A., Your Shit Be Cooking
Praying Mantis On The Court And I Can't Be Beat
So, Yo Tip, What's Up With The Boot On Your Feet
I've Got The Timbos On The Toes And This Is How It Goes
Oh One Two, Oh My God
One Two, Oh My God, I've Got Some Shit
I've Got The Kung Fu Grip Behind My Green Trap Kit
Never Ever Ever Smoking Crack
Never Ever Ever Fucking Wack
I Eat The Fuckin' Pineapple Now & Laters
Listen To Me Now, Don't Listen To Me Later
Fuck It 'Cause I Know I Didn't Make It Fuckin' Rhyme For Real
But, Yo Technically I'm As Hard As Steel
Gonna Get It Together, Watch It, Gonna Get It Together Ma Bell
I'm Like Ma Bell, I've Got The Ill Communications

Sarbrosa (Beastie Boys/Bobo/Nishita)

(Instrumental)

The Update (Beastie Boys/Caldato/Nishita)

I Can Hear The Trumpets Blowing Screaming Out The End Of Time
Look Around And Listen And You'll See Every Sign
The Waters Are Polluted As The Forests Are Cut Down
Bombing And Drilling Deep Below Ground
Check The Prophecies From Around The World
And Look Around Now As It All Unfurls
Look Into Yourself And See What Goes On
Get A Feeling In Your Heart Of The Right From Wrong
Because The Mother Earth Needs To Be Respected
Been Far From Too Long That She's Been Neglected
Race Against Race, Such A Foolish Waste
It's Like Cutting Off Your Nose To Spit Your Face
And At The End Of The Wars, What Was The Cost
It's Clear That The Earth Was The One Who Lost
We Are One With Her As She Is One With Us
It's Unreal How She Is Treated So Unjust
As Our Planet Grows Smaller Each And Every Day
Everyone Affecting Everyone In Every Way
We're All Citizens Of The Worl Community
All Here Together And We're Searching For Unity
Over The Years, I've Grown And Changed So Much
Things I Know Now Years Ago, I Couldn't Touch
There Are Things I've Done That I Wouldn't Do Again
But I'm Glad That I Did 'Cause I've Learned From Them
I Just Try To Stay Present Right Here, Right Now
No Worries, No Fears And Without Any Doubts
It's About Time

'Cause In These Times, These Changing Times
A Transition Is Occuring And I Am Not Blind
As The Pendlum Swings A New Age We Enter
And With Every Swing, It Draws Closer To The Center
Yes The Storm Before The Calm And The Wars That Lead To Love
Things Must Run Their Course So We Push And We Shove
But We're Here To Work It Out In One Way Or Another
To Find A Mutual Respect For Ourselves And One Another
And The True Key Is A Trust In Self
For When I Trust Myself, I Fear No One Else
I Took Control Of My Life, Just As Anyone Can
I Want Everyone To See It's In The Palm Of Your Hand
The Past Is Gone, The Future Yet Unborn
But Right Here And Now Is Where It All Goes On
I Know We Can Fix It And It's Not Too Late
I Give Respect To King And His Nonviolent Ways
I Dream And I Hope And I Won't Forget
Someday I'm Going To Visit On A Free Tibet
Someday I'm Going To See Us All Joined As One
And It Would Be Too Bad To Blow It Up Before We're Done
'Cause We Long Behind The Rage Learning From The Pain
The Love Behind The Tension Like The Sun Behind The Rain
I'm Sending Loving Light To All That Is
To All Creation And The Life We Live
I'm Not Preaching Bull Shit, Just Speaking My Mind
'Cause I'm Here Now And It's About Time

Futterman's Rule (Beastie Boys/Nishita)

"When Two Are Served, You May Begin To Eat"

                  - Gene Futterman

---------------------------------------------------------------------------
[Image]

---------------------------------------------------------------------------

Alright Hear This (Beastie Boys)

Because I Grab The Microphone And I Pick It Up
And Then I Fuck It Up And Then I Turn It In
And Then I Turn It Out, Got The Body Rockin' Sound
And Then You Know I'm Gonna Get Down And
Eat A Scooby Snack And Take Disco Nap
Because I'm Shopping At Sears, 'Cause I Don't Buy At The Gap
Sending This One Out To All The Funky Inspirations
Pretty Purdie On The Drums With The Beat Relations
Well, I'm Working On Rhymes, They're Coming Line By Line
Trying To Put What I Feel Into Word And Rhymes
I've Got A Feeling Coming On, I've Got To Make Some Shit
A Little Something Stupid, For The Twisted And Sick
Because I Drive Like A Maniac On The Streets
And I Don't Give Fuck 'Cause I've Got The Beats
Got My Nuts Swingin' From Left To Right And
Right To Left And I'm Death Defying

(Chorus)

I Spin My Fortune On A Wheel Like Sajak
Here's The Payback Keep Going Strong Like Since The Way Back
I Try To Be Myself But I Lose Track
'Cause The Shit Gets Complicated Now I've Got To Get Back
As We Learn To Breed Love For One Another
In These Times Of Melding Cultures
I Give Respect For What's Been Borrowed And Lent
I Know This Music Comes Down From African Descent
Because I Don't Need A Magic Potion
Let Me Talk About Back Field In Motion
My Girls Got Cheeks For Weeks And I'm Happy
You Know I'm A Sneak Like My Old Grand Pappy
I Gotta Give Thanks To My Man Archie Sheep
For Staying True To Inspiration And I Don't Half Step
So I Kick Out The Jams And Tell You Who I Am
And I Talk To The People Like Les Mccann

(Chorus)

I Ask God For A Rhyme Or Two
A Little Something For The Wise As Well As The Fool
A Little Something To Affect A Little Taste Of Change
For The Together And The Strong As Well As the Dearanged
I'll Do You Right Like Bobby Knight
And Then I'm Rapping On The Mic To The Broadway Light
Stomp My Hands, I Clap My Feet And
I'm Bugging Off Yusef Lateef
I Got A Match To My Ass And I'm A Keep It Lit
I Need To Get Some Cash, Call My Accountant Britt
I'm Rushing Around Town Taking Care Of My Functions
Always Got One More Thing So Forget About Function
We Create This World And The Problems Go On
Create Our Lives And The Things That Gor Wrong
So To The Deaf, The Blind, Look Around And Listen
To What It Is You Want And For What You're Wishing

(Chorus)

Eugenes Lament (Beastie Boys/Bobo/Gore/Nishita)

(Instrumental)

Flute Loop (Beastie Boys/Caldato)

So, Just Sit Back And Max And Relax
Off Tracks That I Kick, Come On And Give It Up
'CauseI Get Funky Like Diaper Rash
And You Know I'm Mad Spunky And I'm Making Cash
I've Got Sex Rhymes Like Victoria's Got Secrets
To All You Porne Peepers Who Are Trying To Peep This
I'm Like Al Goldstein, I'm All About Screwing
Lead My Team To Sixty Wins Like My Man Pat Ewing
Like Getting Shot Out The Barrel Of A Wave
Like Virgin Pow On The Peaks Of A.K.
Like A Sound That To The Depths Of The
Soul
Well That's The Feeling That I Make My Goal

A Little Wine With My Dinner So I'm In My Grape Ape
I Feel Like A Winner When I Make A Mix Tape
Because I Get Ill When I'm On The Pause Button
And I Get My Fill And You Can't Say Nothing
More Soul On This Train Then Don Cornelious
Got The Mad Subwoofer Pumping Bass For Your Anus
Just Getting On The Mic At The Monthly Function
Wires Hitting Switches Connecting At The Junction
Perlman's Got Beats And It Ain't No Secret
Dante Found His Shit But You Know He Freaked It
And So The Story Goes On And On
Down In S.D. 50 'till Early Morning

Do It (Beastie Boys/Hall/Nishita/Caldato)

(Chorus)

Like The Black Birds I'm A Do It Fluid
Building Rhymes Like Buildings, Like A Stonehenge Druid
Step Up And Get Enlightened, Educating My Mind
I Play The Tape Forward, It's Not Time To Rewind
Step Inside The Mother Fucker And I Get My Flow On
Season's Change When It Comes Their Time
Falls Brings The Winter And On Back To Springtime
Well, It's The King Ad Rock And That's Who I Am
Listen All Of Y'all I'm Not The Son Of Sam
'Cause I'm Thin And I Don't Grin And I'm Not A Grinner
But Check It Out People 'cause I Love To Go And Swim
Caught Up On The Phone Fiber Optic Distraction
Information Super Highway Got The Brain Contraction
I'm The Kung Fu Master Vs. The Sumo Wrestler
Got The Beats In Manhatten You Can Hear In Westchester
Well, My Mother Was Born Out In Coney Island
Raised On The L.E.S. Manhatten Island
My Dad Camo Out From Detroit And They Had Me
And Back On Through Ellis Island Goes Through The Family Tree
Well, I'm A Six Point Seven On The Richter Scale
I've Got Rhymes Gallot And Then I Never Fail
Like Gravy On Potatos, Luke To Darth Vader
I'm A Souped Up Sucker And I'll See You All Later

(Chorus)

You See Me Coming Down The Block With The Funky cuts
You Say Mike D. And I Say Mic These Nuts
I've Got Attractions Like I'm Elvis Costello
Adam Yauch Grab The Mic 'Cause You Know You're My Mellow
Well When I Get It Into The Zone
I'm Gonna Take My Mind To A Place Where It's All One
My Shit Is On And The Rhyme Style's Kicking
My Brain Is Flowing Honest Like Abe Lincoln
'Cause I'm The Fuckin' Rythm Ace With The Rhyme Selection
Listen All Y'all I Rap With Perfection
Because I Got The Mother Fuckin' Old School Flavor
That You Savor So Watch Your Behavior
Talking Other Dimensions, Levels Higher
Why Did Billy Joel Say "We Didn't Start The Fire"
Take You To Another Realm, Another Level
I've Got The Funky Rhymes But I'm Not The Funky Devil
I Step From Minute To Minute, Lifetime To Lifetime
Step From Stage To Stage To See It All Unwind
Slowly But Surely I Seek To Find My Mind
And Every Wall That I Face Is Ow My Own Desig
Glendale Boulevard Boulevard
Glendale Boulevard Is Where I'm At
It's Where I'm At, Where I Live
Check It Out Because My Head Is Like A Siv
And We Turn It Out

(Chorus)

Ricky's Theme (Beastie Boys/Bobo/Nishita)

(Instrumental)

Heart Attack Man (Beastie Boys/Smith)

Drink A Six Pack And Then You Play Som Ball
Walking Down The Stairs And Then He Starts To Fall
Add On Two Joints And Then He Starts To Sweat
Two Hundred Seventy Five Punds That You Can't Forget

Heart Attack, Heart Attack Man
Spend All Your Money On Your Health Insurance Plan
Heart Attack, Heart Attack Man
Keep On Getting Bigger Because You Know That You Can

Why Do You Force Yourself On Top Of That Girl
Laugh With All Your Buddies Because It's A Man's Man's World
Someday That Shit Will Come Back To You
You've Been Throwing Your Weight Around And
Your Shit Is Through

Heart Attack, Heart Attack Man
Going Nowhere, Got No Master Plan
Heart Attack, Heart Attack Man
Heart Attack

(Mosh Part)
Weighs In At Two Seventy Five
My Man Is Lucky To Be Alive
Smokin' And Drinkin' Too
The Heart Attack Man Is Gonna Be Running Over You
Got No God Damn Respect
Had To Put The Big Big Bitch In Check

Heart Attack, Heart Attack Man
Lungs Full Of Tar And A Stomach Full Of Spam
Heart Attack, Heart Attack Man
Time To Change Your Ways Heart Attack Man

The Scoop (Beastie Boys/Caldato)

I Don't get Blind Most Of The Time I Don't Drink Wine
I Took A Sledge Hammer And I Broke My Nine
Because Is Mine, Word Is Born I Rhyme
And Everey Day I Write The Book Down Line By Line
I'm Feeling Good When I Do It Like This
So Come On And Turn It Up Because You Can't Resist
Because I'm Back With Another Track Wich You Lack
'Cause Things Is Wack And That's A Fact
Because I'm On Time, You're Shouting Rewind
You Know It's Ad Rock That's Blowing Your Mind
My Shit Is Rough And You Know It Is So Damn Tough
I'm Getting Intense, Not Talking Nonsese
I Made Up My Mind, Not Sitting On The Fence
I Don't Always The Right From The Wrong
I Do My Best To Figure It Out And Work It Out In The Long
I Try To Do A Lot More Than I Can Chew
Balance Out My Ambition's What I've Got To Do

Because You Hide In Broad Day Light, A Parasite
A Hypocrite, You Take A Peek Quick
You Turn Your Nose Up, You Think You're High Up
You Play It Real Safe And Now Your Shit's Fake
I Seen You Hawking And Then You Clock My Style
And Then You Try To Play It Off Like You Think You're Wild
D.I.Y. That Means Do It Yourself
Don't Sit Around Waiting For Someone's Help
Don't Sit Back And Say Good Enough
Keep On Striving, Reinventing But Keeping It Off
The Cuff

So Kick The Level Up Cuhootnified
Mackadocius Vibes Positively Fortified
I'm Throwing Rhymes Kicking Them Downtown
Traveling High Speed Through The Underground
I Kick It Free Style, Make It Worth Your While
I've Got Shelves Of Rhymes That I Keep On File
I'm Feeling Good Now Back Home Again
New York City Is The City That I Feel At Home In

A Blast From The Grasshoff Awhile It's Been
Stepping Into The Future Again
I'm Straight From The 88 To 93 To 94, I'm Out The Door
Step Into The Party With The Fila Fresh Gear
People Looking At Me Like I Was David Koresh Here
Kicking Rhymes From The Heart 'Cause That's Where I'm At
Fuck The Bullshit, Be It Far From Me To Pop That

In The Search For Truth, I Go A Lot Of Ways
There's Not A Lot Of Peace, That I Find These Days
I Try To Stay Cool, I Try To Stay Calm
But My Life Is Getting Hectic Like A Smoke Bomb
So I'll Say It Like The Group Huggy Bear
There's A Boy-Grrrl Revolution Of Wich You Should Be Aware
You Can't Dis Me, It Ain't Worth It, B
You Put Yourself Down And You Don't Even See
Cause I Don't Play That, I Know Who I Am
For A Minute, I Did But Now I'm Back Again
I'm Feeling Strong See, Trust Myself G
Well I Stopped Smoking Cheeba
And That Was Part Of The Key
We've Got Fire, We Need Water, So I Guess I Ought To
Leave You Broke In A Comatose State Of Mind
And I'm Blind And I'm Working Overtime, So Check It
I Keep My Rhymes In A Little Black Book
And I Know You Want To Take Another Look

Shambala (Beastie Boys/Bobo/Nishita)

(Instrumental)

Bodhisattva Vow (Beastie Boys/Caldato)

As I Develop The Awakening Mind I Praise The Buddha As They Shine
I Bow Before You As I Travel My Path To Join Your Ranks,
I Make My Full Time Task
For The Sake Of All Beings I Seek
The Enlighted Mind That I Know I'll Reap
Respect To Shantideva And All The Others
Who Brought Down The Darma For Sisters And Brothers
I Give Thanks For This World As A Place To Learn
And For This Human Body That I'm Glad To Have Earned
And My Deepest Thanks To All Sentient Beings
For Without Them There Would Be No Place To Learn What I'm Seeing
There's Nothing Here That's Not Been Said Before
But I Put It Down Now So I'll Be Sure
To Solidify My Own Views And I'll Be Glad If It Helps
Anyone Else Out Too

If Others Disrespect Me Or Give Me Flack
I'll Stop And Think Before I React
Knowing That They're Going Through Insecure Stages
I'll Take The Opportunity To Exercise Patience
I'll See It As A Chance To Help The Other Person
Nip It In The Bud Before It Can Worsen
A Change For Me To Be Strong And Sure
As I Think On The Buddhas Who Have Come Before
As I Praise And Respect The Good They've Done
Knowing Only Love Can Conquer In Every Situation
We Need Other People In Order To Create
The Circumstances For The Learning That We're Here To Generate
Situations That Bring Up Our Deepest Fears
So We Can Work To Release Them Until They're Cleared
Therefore, It Only Makes Sense
To Thank Our Enemies Despite Their Intent

The Bodhisattva Path Is One Of Power And Strength
A Strength From Within To Go The Length
Seeing Others Are As Important As Myself
I Strive For A Happiness Of Mental Wealth
With The Interconnectedness That We Share As One
Every Action That We Take Affects Everyone
So In Deciding For What A Situation Calls
There Is A Path For The Good For All
I Try To Make My Every Action For That Highest Good
With The Altruistic Wish To Achive Buddhahood
So I Pledge Here Before Everyone Who's Listening
To Try To Make My Every Action For The Good Of All Beings
For The Rest Of My Lifetimes And Even Beyond
I Vow To Do My Best To Do No Harm
And In Times Of Doubt I Can Think On The Dharma
And The Enlightened Ones Who've Graduated Samsara

Transitions (Beastie Boys/Nishita)

(Instrumental)

Mullet Head

You're coming off like you're Van Damme
You've got Kenny G, in your Trans Am
You've got names like Billy Ray
Now you sing Hip Hop Hooray
Put your Dakleys and your stone wash on
Watching MTV and you mosh on
#1 on the side and don't touch the back
#6 on the top and don't cut it wack, Jack

Shiny chrome rims never rusted
Driving through the tunnel, you might get busted
Never trusted, Mullet head
You know you took that girl to bed
Cruising 8th Street Saturday night
Trying to find a head shop, looking to fight
You've got that stonewash derriere
Spike the top because the week-end is here

You wanna know what's a mullet? well
I got a little story to tell
About a hair style, that's way of life
Have you ever seen a Mullet wife?

Yo, take a chill B, check out my Spillbee
'Cause you don't know about the Mullet head
Cruise in my Iroc, stonewash on my cock
Got it like that 'cause I'm the Mullet head
Put me on trial 'cause I'm worth your while
Pass me the comb 'cause I'm the Mullet man

Read the New York Post, read a story
About Joey Buttafooco in all his glory
They said he tried to freak it with a high school girl
Pimpin' Amy Fisher to the rest of the world
A real lover man, a real Cassanova
Joey got horny and now he's over
Amy got pissed, shot his wife
Joey gest to jail for the rest of his life

Cut the sides, don't touch the back

The Vibes

I kick out the jams and tell you who I am
I said I'll make you shake your ass like Les MaCan
And the you're out talking shit like Yosemite Sam
You've got the elephant feet like Les McCan
Up the crack of dawn I'm on my way
We're talking two foot dump and there'll be no delay
'Cause I'm gone, the shit's getting out of hand
I'm changing my middle name to first Trem
I'm walking on the rhythm like Philippe Petite
I've got hole in my mouth where my teeth should be
You ask whatever happenened to the rappin' duke
I heard the Captain's gonna sign him to Jive and that's the truth
taking care of my functions still smokin, up the shrubery
I stopped eating chicken 'cause the shit was too rubbery
Produce organic from my own yard
Only the freshest herbs and growing's not too hard

Dreaming on it, screaming on it, ready to get dumb
Waking up my long joint, ready to get some
Looking at my board and my old boots
Seeing a waist deep champagne moment of truth
And on the court I've got game like my brother Matt
I give a shout out so where you at
But don't get souped Mathew 'cause I'm a take ya
Horatio Park right now and I'm a shake ya
Give me the fresh count 'cause you know that I'm stressed out
I need some inspiration so get the best out
Like Rock Master Scott, I'm on the request line
Writing the fresh rhyme, having the best time
Good vibes flowing all around
Not a worry in mind as the friends around
A shout out to Linda riding pow forever
Well the Bird is the word and you're as light as a feather

Well I smoke a bag of rat weed 'cause I don't care
and I'm waking old ladies out their underwear
I like the boomin' grannies in big old panties
I'm giving, it to grandma making her crazy
I might be a white boy but I'm no goofy
Got beats like Bobalou on "I Love Lucy"
I'm not like the Skipper on "Fantasy Island"
I'm more like Captain Shtupping when I go back whylin'
The Cire Traverse out to Death shoot
or S.T.H. when they let me back at the Deuce
'Cause I can't get enough of that funky stuff
When the going gets rough ain't going out in the sluff
Down with Bubble Gum and Ninth Creation
Get down we've got the sound sensation
Kid Fresh is back from the 80's
And we're doing it for the ladies

(Chorus)
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
Lyrics transcribed, edited and converted to html by Daniel Ejderberg
d92-dej@nada.kth.se and Phill Sung.
