$Id: techspec.txt,v 1.2 2000/04/05 19:02:49 jacob Exp $

Apache::AuthCookieDBI Technical Specification

* Description.

This module will allow cookie-based authentication backed by a DBI database,
using usernames and passwords for authentication.

* Authentication.

Authentication is based on a username and password.  These are supplied in
plaintext by the user in a form submission through Apache::AuthCookie.  These
are compared against values in a users table in a DBI database.  The password
field in the database may be plaintext, or hashed with crypt() or md5_hex().

* Tickets.

When a user successfully authenticates, they are issued a cookie with a
session value.  This value consists of a serialized version of
the userid, an issue time, an expiration date, and a two-round MD5 checksum
of the userid and times and a server secret key.  This checksum
ensures that when the ticket is returned we can see that it has not been
tampered with since in order to generate the checksum you must have the secret
key.

This ticket may optionally be encrypted using DES, IDEA or Blowfish to prevent
the client being able to view the information contained in it.  Note that this
does not protect against someone intercepting the ticket and using it to
access the system; use SSL to prevent connection sniffing.

* Ticket authentication.

When this ticket is returned to the server with each request to a protected
document, it is decrypted if encryption is in use, the fields are broken apart
and a new checksum is generated of the user, issue time, expire time, and the
server secret key.  This checksum is compared to the supplied checksum to
ensure that no tampering has taken place.

The expire time is checked against the current time to ensure that this
ticket has not expired.

The user is then set from what was supplied in the ticket.

* Authorization.

Group-based authorization is permitted with:

	require group foo bar

directives.  A groups table is used to look up whether the authenticated user
is a member of any of the supplied groups.  If so access will be permitted.
This groups table should have one column for the group name and one for
the user name (in a well-normalized database that has more per-group
information than this module uses it would be a join table between the
groups and users tables).
