Statement of Government Policy by the Prime Minister, Mr
Ingvar Carlsson, at the Opening of the Swedish
Parliament on Tuesday, 4 October, 1988.


Your Majesties, Your Royal Highnesses, Mr Speaker,
Members of the Swedish Parliament.

Sweden's policy of neutrality is of decisive importance
for our peace and independence. It also contributes to
stability and détente in our part of the world. There is
wide popular support for this policy. It will be pursued
with firmness and consistency.

Our policy of neutrality is underpinned by a strong
defence. That safeguards our independence. Violations of
Swedish territory will never be accepted. The army will
be reorganized with the aim of making it more effective.
It is the Government's intention to seek broad solutions
in issues that are of importance for our national
security.

The Government welcomed the agreement between the United
States and the Soviet Union on the elimination of
land-based intermediate-range nuclear weapons. Efforts
must now, among other things, aim at reducing strategic
arms and bringing about a comprehensive test ban treaty.
Sweden is acting in support of this inter alia within
the framework of the Six Nation Initiative.

The Government will continue its active efforts on
behalf of a nuclear-weapon-free zone in the Nordic area
and of a corridor in Central Europe free of battlefield
nuclear weapons.

By supporting economic and social progress in developing
countries the Government wishes to contribute to
reversing the economic decline in the poor countries and
to alleviating the debt crisis. Development assistance
shall furthermore promote a sustainable use of natural
resources and protection of the environment.

The Government will actively promote the convening in
1992 of a global United Nations conference on the
environment and development.

In Central America the five Presidents have signed a
peace plan which Sweden has given its wholehearted
support. Negotiations are in progress on peace between
Iran and Iraq. The Soviet troops are in the process of
withdrawing from Afghanistan.

In the majority of the regional conflicts the United
Nations has been able to make important contributions.
Sweden is participating in, among other things, the
United Nations Military Observer Groups in Afghanistan
and in Iran/Iraq.

We were pleased to learn that the Nobel Peace Prize is
being awarded this year to the United Nations peace-keeping
forces. Sweden has participated in practically all the
United Nations operations of this kind. It is also an
honour for Sweden that the Secretary-General, in
consultation with the parties, has appointed our United
Nations Ambassador to be his personal representative at
the peace negotiations between Iran and Iraq.


The degrading apartheid system in South Africa must be
abolished. A decision by the United Nations Security
Council on mandatory sanctions against South Africa
would be the most effective measure to this end.

The conflict in the Middle East is among the most
difficult to solve. The Government actively supports the
endeavours to convene an international peace conference
under the auspices of the United Nations.


Sweden is dependent on free exchanges of goods and
services across national boundaries. We are setting the
pace in the current negotiations to strengthen free
trade.

Within the framework of EFTA and in collaboration with
the other EFTA countries, the Government will intensify
co-operation wit the EC in all fields to the extent it
is compatible with our policy of neutrality. Nordic
co-operation will also be developed. In this context, the
requirements of full employment, welfare, a good working
environment and trade union participation will be key
issues. Opportunities for study, work and cultural
exchanges across national boundaries will be extended.


The Government intends to uphold and strengthen the rule
of law in several ways.

The possibilities for courts and public prosecution
authorities to carry out their important work will be
improved.

The Government will put forward proposals for developing
police work and making it more effective.

A proposal for a lower legal limit for the offence of
driving with ability impaired by alcohol will be
submitted to Parliament.

Crime prevention work at the local level is to be
encouraged. The fight against violence and economic
crime will be given priority.

The treatment of offenders must be administered in such
a way that prison escapes are prevented. At the same
time the term in prison and non-institutional care must
facilitate rehabilitation after discharge.


The goal of our economic policy is full employment and
greater prosperity for the whole nation.

The rate of inflation is too high and must be reduced.
Our budget policy must therefore continue to be tight
and strong government finances maintained. Costly
reforms will only be carried through to the extent
allowed by economic growth, reappraisal of expenditure
and by rationalizations in the public sector.

A shortage of labour and low savings restrict growth and
push up prices and costs. Special measures will
therefore be taken in order to encourage saving and make
better use of people's desire to work. Proposals will be
put forward for increasing competition and keeping down
costs in areas where price trends are boosting
inflation.

A reduction of the marginal income-tax rate in 1989 by 3
percentage points will be proposed in the first place
for full-time employees.

Later in the electoral period, proposals will be put
forward for an extensive reform of the tax system. The
aim is to stimulate work and saving. State income-tax
will be reduced and capital taxes increased. The tax
system will be simplified and tax avoidance
counteracted. Company taxation will be reformed in the
direction of lower rates of tax and broader tax bases.
Indirect taxation is to be reformed too.


In order further to increase employment and meet the
shortage of labour the Government will develop its
active labour market policy. Recurrent training in
working life and qualified further education will play
an important role in this context. Opportunities for the
disabled to participate in working life must be further
improved. Immigrants' entry into the labour market
should be facilitated.

Working life is to be made more secure and just.

The Government will invite the organizations in the
labour market and the relevant authorities to
participate in a commission on the working environment
to make special efforts for the 400,000 workplaces most
exposed to hazards. The commission is to submit
proposals for measures that will result in healthier
working environments, and which will reduce the many
work injuries.

During this electoral period, legislation on a sixth
week of annual holiday with pay will be enacted. This
reform will be carried through in stages.

It is essential that the work of breaking down the
barriers on the labour market for more flexible choices
by both sexes be continued. It must be made easier for
men and women to combine gainful employment and parental
responsibility. Further measures will be taken to
increase the number of women in various decision-making
assemblies.

The broadening of regional policy that has taken place
in recent years in the direction of higher competence,
education and an enhanced infrastructure, will continue.

Small companies are responsible for much of the dynamics
and renewal in Swedish industry and commerce. We will
therefore continue our efforts to create favourable
development opportunities for small companies.


Our generous policy in solidarity with refugees stands
firm. The United Nations efforts for the worlds'
refugees will be given continued strong support. Racism
and xenophobia will be forcefully combated.

Proposals will be submitted to Parliament for a new
Aliens Act. The administration of matters relating to
aliens will be speeded up considerably.


Consideration for the environment and the countryside
must characterize developments in all fields.
Parliament's decision on traffic policy is of great
importance in this context.

A radical environmental policy presupposes a strong
economy. Efforts are being further pursued to reach
agreements across boundaries on reduced air and water
pollution and on protection of the earth's climate. The
plan for phasing out CFCs is being fulfilled.

Industrial products and processes are to be cleaner
through stringent requirements and rapid adaptation to
new technology. Permits granted will be re-examined.
Requirements imposed on environmentally hazardous
products, chemicals and on waste disposal management
will be tightened. Preliminary inspection of new
chemical substances will be introduced.

Pollution charges for chlorine organics and sulphur will
be introduced as early as 1989. Proposals for pollution
charges for other substances, among them carbon dioxide,
will be presented during this term of office.

All legislation pertaining to the environment will be
reviewed and co-ordinated. Proposals for a new Nature
Conservation Act as also further tightening of the
Environment Protection Act will be presented during the
life of this Parliament.

The organization of environmental protection will be
given substantially increased resources. Special
measures will be applied in regions particularly
exposed, for example west Skåne and the Sundsvall/Timrå
area.

In the near future the Government will invite
representatives of the three big cities to take part in
discussions on how the environment of these cities is to
be improved.

In 1990 a proposal will be submitted to Parliament on
the two reactors at the Barsebäck and Ringhals nuclear
power stations that are to be taken out of service in
1995 and 1996. The energy system will be modified such
that acidification is reduced and climatic effects
counteracted.

The Government's agricultural policy aims to promote
farming that thrives without having damaging effects on
the environment. There must be a move from today's
intensive production to farming that better meets the
requirements in respect of the environment and regional
distribution. Alternative methods of farming will be
stimulated. Measures will be taken to protect the visual
amenity of the open landscape.

International developments will require changes in agricultural
subsidies to forms implying less protectionism. The Government
intends to pursue a food policy such that the price trend is
checked and the consumers offered food at reasonable prices.
Food controls will be tightened.


The public sector will be renewed in order to provide
better service to people according to their needs and
wishes. Service and freedom of choice will be augmented.
Efficiency is to be promoted, by, among other things,
allowing greater scope for employees' power of
initiative.

Parental insurance will be extended from nine to
eighteen months with payment according to the "loss of
earnings" principle. The extension will be completed by
1991. The first stage, which enters into force on 1 July
1989, means payment for a further three months.

The extension of child care services will continue in
accordance with Parliament's decision.

Through the extra increase of the base amount as of 1
January 1989, pensioners will receive full compensation
for the 1982 devaluation.

The Government intends through, among other things, the
work of the National Health Policy Commission to devote
considerable attention to the provision of a universal
right to high quality health and medical service. Staff
recruitment within the caring services must be improved.

The situation for severely disabled persons and for
disabled children and their families will be given
special attention.

Care of the elderly will be extended with the aim of
creating security, independence and freedom of choice.

The fight against HIV and AIDS will continue as also the
fight against drugs.

The Government bill on the nine-year compulsory school
is now available for consideration. The upper secondary
school will be reformed. This means changes in both the
vocational and theoretical course programmes. Places in
the upper secondary school will be available to all
young people under the age of 20.

There will be improved co-ordination of adult education,
labour market training and personnel training.

The efforts to achieve increased equality and a more
even social composition in all study paths will be
intensified. In this context, particular attention will
be paid to the situation of young immigrants.

International co-operation within research and
development is becoming increasingly important. The
Government will continue its efforts to create good
opportunities for Swedish industry and Swedish
researchers to participate in international research
co-operation.

During the coming electoral period, SEK 300 million will
be earmarked for the renewal and development of cultural
life. Children and young people will be given increased
opportunities of encountering and themselves practising
music, dancing, singing, literature, theatre and other
artistic activities. The conditions of professionals in
the arts sector will be improved. Cultural life in the
whole country will be strengthened.

The popular movements, not least youth organizations and
the sports movement, carry out valuable work which will
be supported and facilitated.


A sufficient number of dwellings to meet housing needs
are to be constructed. Efforts to produce more housing
for young people will be intensified. Resources will be
set free for the provision of housing by limiting other
construction projects in overheated regions. Further
measures to curb cost trends will be taken.


The policies we pursue in the next three years will
leave their mark on developments in this country during
the decade to come. And in the next few years we will
have to face challenges with consequences for the next
century.

On the threshold of the nineties, we should confirm and
strengthen in the long term what must be the basis for
future developments too: the economy, full employment
and welfare.

We will then also create the scope for action for the
renewal and the new efforts which are required in a
number of important areas: within environmental and
energy policy, in the public sector, in working life, in
the area of taxation, and in order to strengthen our
co-operation - economic, social and cultural - with other
countries.

The preconditions for this the aim and direction of our
policy are favourable.

International developments give hope of further steps
towards peace, freedom and increased understanding
between nations and peoples.

Sweden's economic situation has improved substantially
in recent years. The level of employment in this country
is high. The welfare state enjoys wide popular support.

There is broad political consensus and support for
tackling the environmental problems forcefully.

We have good reason to feel optimistic when looking to
the future.

But there is also reason to remind ourselves of how
quickly a favourable development can be turned into the
direct opposite. This was the case in the 1970s when the
Swedish economy was hit by the severest crisis since the
1930s. The tasks we have ahead of us, and the danger of
rapid dramatic changes, mean that responsibility, and
the ability to take political action and to co-operate
will be required in the future too.

For the first time in 70 years a new party is now
entering Parliament. I should like to welcome the
members of the Environment Party the Greens to what I
hope will be inspiring parliamentary work.

We all bear a joint responsibility to make the three coming
years good ones for this country and all its inhabitants,
for the environment, for our relations with other countries
and for our own daily contacts and relations with other people
no matter where we have our roots.

It is the Government's resposibility and aim to put to use all
good initiatives, to work for broad solutions and to pursue a
policy in the interests of the whole nation.
